The hairiest month of the year is here! Join the global movement helping men live happier, healthier, longer lives. Sign up as a Mo Bro or Mo Sista at www.za.movember.com. For 30 days in the month formerly known as November, Mo Bros and Mo Sistas around the world will be rallying to raise funds and awareness for the often ignored issues surrounding men’s health. “Men are facing a health crisis that isn’t being talked about. We have to make a stand and stop men dying too young, before their time,” says Garron Gsell, chief executive and founder of the Men’s Foundation, which manages the Movember campaign in South Africa under license from the Movember Foundation. Movember is the leading global men’s health charity, funding over 1,200 projects in 21 countries worldwide – focusing on prostate cancer, testicular cancer, mental health and suicide prevention. Prostate cancer rates will double in the next 15 years. Testicular cancer rates have already doubled in the last 50 years, while three quarters of suicides are men. Poor mental health leads to half a million men taking their own life every year. That’s one every minute. According the World Health Organisation close to 800 000 people die due to suicide every year. For every suicide there are many more people who attempt suicide every year. Suicide in the second leading cause of death amongst 15 – 29 year-olds. In South Africa, prostate cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in men, while male suicide accounts for approximately 18 deaths a day. Currently, men in South Africa have a life expectancy that is seven years’ shorter than that of women. The Men’s Foundation aims to reduce the number of men dying prematurely by 25% by 2030. “We have a long way to go until no man dies of these diseases. Our sons, partners, fathers, brothers and friends are facing these challenges and we need your help,” says Gsell. This year’s campaign encourages everyone to be the difference in a man’s life, whether it’s your own health or that of your father, partner, brother or mate, by encouraging men to start the conversations, get tested and become more physically active. Visit www.za.movember.com to choose how you you’d like to make a difference. Mo Bro’s are encouraged to start 1 Movember clean shaven. Grow throughout the month, and get some serious funds behind the men who need it most. Mo Sistas, make a difference in the lives of the men in your life! Get behind the Mo Bro’s in your life, adopt a Mo Bro in the office, help organise the teams, auction off their moustaches, or get a little creative and organise an event. Anything to attract attention and raise funds while having fun. Mo Bro’s or Mo Sistas, do something good for you, while doing something great for men’s health. Move this Movember, and you can be the difference in a man’s life. Walk, run, cycle, swim or row. A little or a lot. Solo or in a team. It’s not about being the fittest or going the furthest. It’s about havin’ fun, doin’ good, by raising funds along the way. “The current reality is that government funding primarily focuses on women, children and the elderly, and there are very good reasons for this,” Gsell says. “What that means is that if we want to help men, then we have to rely on the private and public sectors to donate and invest in programmes that will make a difference.” In South Africa, the Men’s Foundation is developing their own programmes as well as collaborating with their beneficiary partners and the Prostate Cancer Foundation to identify, develop and fund men’s survivorship and research programmes that meet the global objectives of the Movember Foundation. Sign up as a Mo Bro or Mo Sista. Grow a Mo. Support a Bro. Take the MOVE 100 challenge. 
Host and attend an event. Help spread awareness and education about men’s health. All past Mo Bro’s and Mo Sistas need to re-register. For more info, visit www.za.movember.com to download the Movember app on your mobile device. Follow Movember on social media: @MovemberRSA on Twitter or facebook/MovemberSouthAfrica. It’s time to take action: ⦁	Sign up to help raise awareness and make a difference. Grow a Mo, Host and attend an event, or MOVE to fundraise at ⦁	www.za.movember.com. Get growing. Grow and groom your moustache for 30 days.   Help spread awareness and raise funds for men’s health. Sign up as a Mo Bro or Mo Sista at www.za.movember.com and be the difference in a man’s life. Movember is the leading global men’s health charity, funding over 1,200 projects in 21 countries worldwide – focusing on prostate cancer, testicular cancer, mental health and suicide prevention. Movember is ranked 49th out of the top 500 NGOs (non-governmental organisations) around the world and is the largest non-governmental funder of men’s health programmes globally, delivering innovative, breakthrough research and support programmes that enable men to live happier, healthier and longer lives. In South Africa, Movember is grown and groomed by The Men's Foundation of South Africa under license from the International Movember Foundation. The Men’s Foundation is developing and implementing global programmes, as well as their own programmes, while working with local beneficiary partners, to identify, develop and fund men’s survivorship and research programmes that meet the global objectives of the Movember Foundation. Since 2010, over R25 million has been donated to the Cancer Association of South Africa through local Movember efforts. (Adapted from press release)