Delta Air Lines is selling the Delta Comfort+ product as a fare for flights departing 22 January 2018 and beyond in most trans-Atlantic markets, including:   Delta Comfort+ was introduced in March 2015 as an upgrade from Main Cabin. Now as a separate fare class, in addition to extra legroom and recline, customers benefit from Sky Priority boarding with dedicated overhead bin space, and complimentary Rest and Refresh amenity bags with eye shades, ear plugs and a dental kit featuring Colgate toothpaste. All meals and drinks are free throughout Delta’s international fights.
 
“Making Delta Comfort+ available as a dedicated fare on our trans-Atlantic network is another way we are delivering more choice to our customers by offering a full menu of Deltaproducts to purchase,” said Corneel Koster, Delta’s senior vice president Europe, Middle East and Africa. “Since its launch, the popularity of Delta Comfort+ has surged and we’re delighted to bring it to more international markets around our network.”
 
Delta Comfort+ is most easily purchased when shopping via delta.com, the Fly Delta mobile app, or with a Delta Reservations Specialist. Delta continues to collaborate with its joint venture partners to ensure customers can view availability on combined itineraries. Additionally, Delta remains engaged with distribution partners to allow Delta Comfort+ to be purchased through travel agents and in consumer direct shopping displays. For Delta-operated international flights not included in this update, Delta Comfort+ will continue to be sold as an add-on seating option.
 
This latest enhancement is part of the airline’s multi-billion dollar investment in the customer experience that includes a cabin modernisation program featuring new seats, seatback entertainment systems with free entertainment, free mobile messaging, high-capacity overhead bins, access to Wi-Fi on nearly all flights, free Main Cabin meals on select flights, upgraded Main Cabin snacks, an Alessi-designed collection of service ware, Westin Heavenly® In-Flight Bedding, chef-curated meals paired with wines hand-selected by Master Sommelier Andrea Robinson, noise-canceling LSTN headphones and more.
 
Additionally, Delta has made significant investments in the customer experience on the ground. These include new Delta Sky Club locations in Denver, Atlanta, and Seattle, and Club renovations in Nashville, Dallas, Newark, and Minneapolis-St. Paul, airport enhancement programs in Atlanta, Los Angeles, New York and Salt Lake City, and the testing and implementation of an enhanced boarding process in Atlanta. Delta also plans to add nearly 250 new aircraft to its fleet in coming years.