New live-action adventure ‘Peppa Pig Live in South Africa’  brings hit TV series to life in SA theatre tour starting March 2018 More fun than a muddy puddle! Entertainment One’s phenomenally successful preschool TV show, Peppa Pig, will move from the small screen to the theatre stage in South Africa next year as “Peppa Pig Live in South Africa” begins its much-anticipated tour. Marking the first ever nationwide stage show tour for Peppa and friends, “Peppa Pig Live in South Africa” will open in Johannesburg at Emperor’s Palace on 29 March and run until 2 April 2018. The show will then visit Cape Town’s International Convention Centre from 6 to 8 April 2018 before heading to The Playhouse Company, Durban from 20 – 22 April 2018. The second leg of the tour takes place in June/July 2018 with stopovers at the Port Elizabeth Opera House from 22 – 24 June 2018 followed by Pretoria. General public ticket sales, as well as exclusive VIP packages that include a meet and greet are on sale at Computicket. “Peppa Pig Live in South Africa” is an action-packed rollicking stage show, based on the award-winning television series (broadcast locally on E-TV and DSTV) especially designed to give young fans an unforgettable first live theatre experience. A fully immersive musical production featuring a dozen familiar and original songs, as well as an interactive sing-a-long, the live stage show will have fans laughing, cheering and dancing – just like Peppa. “Peppa Pig is one of the most loved characters by pre-schoolers and their families here in South Africa,” says Chad Findlay, the show’s Creative Director. “This one-of-a-kind stage show – with incredible life-sized puppets and beautifully costumed characters – brings Peppa Pig to life in a whole new way for South African audiences.” “We’re so excited for local fans to experience Peppa Pig Live in South Africa,” said Ami Dieckman, Head of International Licensing at Entertainment One Family. “We can’t wait to bring Peppa and all her friends to SA for the first time in this incredible live production. Fans around the country will be dancing, singing and of course jumping in muddy puddles.” Come join Peppa, George, Mummy Pig, Daddy Pig and more in a fantastic adventure filled with buckets of surprises and plenty of muddy puddles. For more information about the show, visit www.peppapiglive.co.za or stay in touch via social media. Make it a big day out, don’t miss Peppa Pig LIVE.  #PeppaPigLiveSA Tickets priced from R199 are available from Computicket by calling 0861 915 8000 or visit www.computicket.com or your nearest Computicket service centre. Special discounted family packages are available. A limited number of exclusive VIP Meet & Greet packages are available for the ultimate Peppa Pig Live experience, for those wanting to meet Peppa after the show.