Munich - When BMW unleashed its M4 CS earlier this year, its intention was to bridge the gap between the already-hardcore M4 Competition Pack and the insanely-hardcore M4 GTS. Now the Bavarian carmaker has announced a CS version of the M3 Sedan, to build a bridge to those buyers who want all that dynamic scrumptiousness in a more practical four-door wrapping. Just like its coupé sibling, the M3 CS gets a slightly more powerful version of the M Division’s 3-litre, six-cylinder twin-turbo powerhouse, tuned to 338kW at 6240rpm and 600Nm from 4000, versus the 331kW and 550Nm that you get in the M3 Competition. According to BMW’s claims, the CS is 0.1 seconds quicker from 0-100km/h, taking just 3.9 seconds, while the top speed is electronically limited to 280km/h. The M division has also thrown in a specially tuned sports exhaust system to make the most of that straight-six soundtrack. Power goes to the back wheels through a seven-speed M DCT dual-clutch automated transmission with shift paddles, and the chassis remains as per the M3 Competition for the most part, with the Adaptive M suspension system and Active M Differential fitted as standard. The M3 CS rides on 19” front and 20” rear wheels, fitted with semi-slick cup tyres, and is also distinguished on the outside by a number of lightweight carbon fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP) components, including a bespoke bootlid spoiler. In fact, the M3 CS makes extensive use of CFRP for large sections of the body, including the bonnet and roof. The cabin is set apart by a two-tone colour scheme that combines Silverstone and Black leather with Alcantara, and standard kit includes a Harman Kardon surround sound system and Navigation system Professional. M3 CS drivers will enjoy a fair degree of exclusivity as just 1200 will be built for global consumption, of which just 15 have been allocated to South Africa. The order books open in January 2018, but pricing has yet to be confirmed. The M4 CS recently went on sale here for R1 847 278, so expect something in that region. IOL Motoring