Meek Mill could end up in prison for almost two years after he broke his probation. The 30-year-old rapper was told to stick to the terms and conditions of his sentence after he previously violated his parole on numerous occasions regarding his ongoing drug and weapons case, which dates back to 2008, but it looks like he may have landed himself in hot water again as he will appear in front of a judge next week and, if luck isn't on his side, could bag 20 months behind bars, TMZ reports. His current legal woes come just weeks after a judge threw out his two misdemeanour charges, which he obtained after he got into a fight with a fan at St. Louis international airport in March and then reckless driving in New York in August, under the condition he completes the community service agreed in the plea deal. Cassper Nyovest inspires Nigerian star Vector The 'All Eyes on You' hitmaker did complete his community service at the Veteran's Association in Philadelphia but, although the charges were dropped, his run-ins with the law this year have breached the terms of his ongoing drug and weapons case. Meek was first arrested at the age of 18 when he was caught in possession of an illegal firearm and assaulting a police officer, which resulted in him being put on probation. But, since then, he's been detained a further four times for breaking the conditions and the judge warned that another violation would result in imprisonment. Mzansi slams 'Kani to star alongside Beyoncé' headline #TheLionKing He was then sentenced to 11 to 23 months in prison in 2008 after he was found guilty of drug dealing and gun possession but he was released less than a year later under a five-year parole agreement, which he broke in 2012 and banned from travelling. In 2014, Meek had his probation revoked and he was sentenced to three to six months in jail after he failed to inform the courts of his travel plans numerous times. He was released from prison at the end of 2014 but, less than a year later, was found guilty of parole violation again and was sentenced to 90 days of house arrest. During that time he was banned from working and was required to do daily community service with groups serving adults. He was also slapped with an additional six years of probation, which is still in effect. Bang Showbiz