PORT ELIZABETH – Kaizer Chiefs defeated Chippa United 1-0 in a Telkom Knockout quarterfinal clash at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Sunday afternoon. Chiefs join Bloemfontein Celtic, Polokwane City and Bidvest Wits in the semi-finals of the competition. United had only themselves to blame as they squandered two inviting opportunities early on. In a superb start to the game, in which they had Chiefs on the stretch, they should really have scored twice. But Mpho Mvelase’s effort was saved by goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune and Andile Mbenyane shot wide when he had the goal at his mercy. If there’s one thing about playing against a team like Chiefs, then it’s that the opposition has to make the most of their chances. United failed to do so and they paid the price when the Soweto side took the lead in the 31st minute. There was some controversy to it, though, as there was a great deal of doubt with the penalty awarded for a foul on Joseph Molangoane by Chippa defender James Okwuosa. Nevertheless, the decision stood – and Chiefs striker Bernard Parker stepped up to convert the spot-kick.  Congratulations to Telkom Man of the Match: Joseph Molangoane #TKO2017 #KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/sw7DQkWJZF  — Kaizer Chiefs (@KaizerChiefs) November 5, 2017   The game continued to crack away at a good pace as both teams played their part in an entertaining spectacle. The second half kicked off with an opportunity going the way of emerging Chiefs midfielder Wiseman Meyiwa, but the youngster’s shot was blocked by the United defence. The Port Elizabeth side continued to try their best to get back on level terms, but found the going tough – and, when they did manage to breach the defence, Khune was there to clean things up. Chiefs veteran Siphiwe Tshabalala, recently recalled to the Bafana Bafana squad, was making things happen in midfield. He laid on a clever ball for Hendrick Ekstein, but the player hoofed his attempt high and wide. United, too, were still threatening and, on one such occasion, Kurt Lentjies failed to hit the target. In the closing stages, United’s Paseka Mako had a great chance to equalise, but drilled his attempt wide. During injury-time, Khune was stretchered off injured, and with Chiefs having made three substitutions already, they finished a man short, with defender Daniel Cardoso taking the gloves to cover in goal. Telkom Knockout Semi-Final Draw (to be played on November 18/19) Polokwane City v Bloemfontein Celtic Wits v Kaizer Chiefs African News Agency (ANA)