Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith did not give Tyrese Gibson money to pay his legal fees, despite his claim they had sent him $5 million. The 38-year-old actor has been embroiled in a lengthy legal battle with his former spouse Norma after she sought a permanent restraining order and claimed the 'Furious 7' star was abusive to their 10-year-old daughter Shayla, and he claimed earlier this week his friends had given him $5 million (approximately R70 million) to help fund his fight. However, insiders told TMZ the couple "did not give Tyrese any money at all", but the pair are said to be worried about his mental state. Tyrese had claimed on social media that his generous pals had sent him the money to stay "afloat". Alongside a string of images of Tyrese - who married Samantha Lee earlier this year - with Will, he wrote on Instagram: "When we show UP for each-other there's nothing that can't be done I repeat nothing. "My wife kept the news away from me cause I've been on with lawyers all day but our family and our sister Jada-Pinkett Smith and my brother Will Smith just sent us 5 million dollars to help keep us afloat.' "You've guys asked me to get off and stay off the Internet now that my daughters legal fees will be paid I will listen.(sic)." And the 'How You Gonna Act Like That' singer thanked "The Smiths" for "always" being there for him and his family. He continued: "The Smiths and their whole family has always shown up for The Gibsons Uncle Will you're an uncle for real. (sic)" When we show UP for each-other there’s nothing that can’t be done I️ repeat nothing. My wife kept the news away from me cause I’ve been on with lawyers all day but our family and our sister Jada-Pinkett Smith and my brother Will Smith just sent us 5 million dollars to help keep us afloat- You’ve guys asked me to get off and stay off the Internet now that my daughters legal fees will be paid ! will listen..... The Smiths’s and their whole family has always shown up for The Gibson’s Uncle Will you’re an uncle for real..... And I’m saying again if you guys are out there in the Atlanta area please vote for @keishabottoms someone my daughter looks up to a LOT!!!! #ShaylaRocks A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on Nov 5, 2017 at 2:27pm PST The claim came shortly after Tyrese took to social media to reveal he has been forced to pay out "$13,000 a month". Speaking previously, he said: "I'm at $13,000 a month, what more do you want from me? (sic). And Tyrese has made it known he is disappointed by the lack of support by his close ones during his time of need. He also said: "I've been there for you, why aren't you there for me? (sic)." The 'Legion' star denied the claims from his ex-wife, insisting she was being vindictive because of his second marriage, and he was recently told a subsequent investigation by the Los Angeles County of Department of Children and Family Services would be closed and he wouldn't face criminal charges.