Shaping your facial hair for Movember (worldwide men's health awareness month) just became easier with inspiration from the Netflix greats.  
 
You’ve been cultivating the moustache for a few weeks now and it’s time to decide what style and direction you want to take. It's a daunting decision, we know, but fear not, Netflix is home to some of the most brilliant moustaches around. Get comfortable and let some of the greats, inspire you. The ‘Magnum PI’: Inspired by Pablo Escobar in Narcos Channel your inner gangster with this close, thick and carefully combed tasche, that exudes confidence. Narcos is a gritty gangster drama series that tells the true story of Colombia’s most violent and powerful drug cartel, led by infamous drug lord, Pablo Escobar. The ‘Horseshoe’: Inspired by Joe Caputo in Orange is the New Black. Also known as the ‘biker’, this bold tasche is full with vertical extensions grown down past the corners of the mouth, to the jawline. Orange is the New Black is a comedic drama that follows a privileged New Yorker, who is sentenced to 15 months in prison for a crime committed in her youth. The Emmy-winning series comes from the creator of “Weeds” and is full of laughs, heartache and drama. The ‘Full Goatee’: Inspired by Luke in Luke Cage The fuller the goatee, the greater the look. The Full Goatee Moustache takes a regular goatee to another level. With fuller hair at the chin that extends up and around the mouth, it’s manly in all the right ways - just like Luke. Action packed Luke Cage follows a hoodie-wearing, unbreakable ex-con, fighting to clear his name and save his neighborhood. The ‘Designer Beard’: Inspired by Marco from Marco Polo The designer beard became popular in the 1980s when rugged men were the most desired. This style was worn and reinvented by singer George Michael, actor Don Johnson and, in the 2010s, rapper Drake. Since then it’s been adopted by many others, including Netflix’s very own Marco Polo. Set in a world of greed, betrayal, sexual intrigue and rivalry, “Marco Polo” is based on the famed explorer’s adventures in Kublai Khan’s court. If you want the mo, without the massive commitment, follow Marco Polo’s lead and go for a more rugged moustache and a subtle beard combo. Magnum PI, horseshoe, goetie or designer beard - no matter the shape or style of your Mo this Movember, your face can inspire donations, conversations and real change. Sign up and get growing.