Linkin Park have dedicated their forthcoming 'One More Light Live' album to late singer Chester Bennington following his death in July 2017. The US rockers will drop 'One More Light Live' on December 15 after recording the record during their final run of shows, the 'One More Light Tour', before Chester took his own life in July 2017 aged 41. WATCH: Chester Bennington remembered at Linkin Park concert They said in a statement: "We dedicate this live album to our brother Chester who poured his heart and soul into 'One More Light.' "After we finished recording the album, we joked with Chester that - since he had delivered so many stunning performances in the studio - he had set the bar extra high to produce that alchemy on stage each night. "Not surprisingly, he welcomed the challenge." The 'Numb' hitmakers - made up of Rob Bourdon, Brad Delson, Mike Shinoda, Dave Farrell and Joe Hahn - praised their lead singer for turning "pain into catharsis" with his emotional lyrics and thanked him for his "dedication" to the band. The group added: "Chester was uniquely passionate, uncommonly generous, sensitive, optimistic, funny and kind. With his voice, he turned pain into catharsis, authenticity into art and passion into connection. His dedication to bringing these songs to life was triumphant. "For those of you who attended this tour in person, we thank you. For those who could not, we hope this live album gives you a glimpse into how magical these shows were for the six of us." Last month, Linkin Park paid tribute to Chester at a star-studded tribute concert for him in Los Angeles. Mike, who hosted the event, told the crowd: "Doing this show is one of the hardest things I think that we've ever decided to do. And I think you're part of the only reason that we are able to even stand up here and do this." He also sang an unfinished track, 'Looking for an Answer', which he wrote soon after Chester's death. Gavin Rossdale, Alanis Morrisette, Zedd and Blink-182 also performed at the concert.