Kanye West's fans reportedly protested Taylor Swift releasing 'Reputation' on the anniversary of his mother's death by streaming his song 'Hey Mama' 700,000 times. The 27-year-old pop star dropped her new record on November 10, which fans of the 40-year-old rapper pointed out was the 10-year anniversary of the 'All Day' hitmaker's mom Donda West's death. READ: Is Kanye West getting ready to launch his own streaming service? Though sources close to Taylor insisted there was "no correlation", the rap star's following had made various social media accounts leading to his 2005 song - from the LP 'Late Registration' - about his mother's passing subsequently seeing a substantial hike in streams on Spotify on the very same day. According to website The Ringer, the track went from 23.6 million to 25.3 million steams within 24 hours. A spokesperson for Taylor previously commented on the coincidental release date, saying: "It is standard practice that releases come out on Fridays and we locked in this release date based on other Universal Music Group releases. There is no correlation." The pair have been embroiled in a long-running feud ever since the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards, when he interrupted her acceptance speech for Best Female Video. Kanye argued Beyonce was more deserving of the prize and although they buried their differences, he reignited the rivalry when he made reference to Taylor in his song 'Famous'. On the track, Kanye says: "I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex / Why, I made that b***h famous." Meanwhile, the lead single on 'Reputation, 'Look What You Made Me Do', features a number of apparent digs at the likes of Kanye and his wife Kim Kardashian West, among others. Taylor slams someone for their "tilted stage", something Kanye had during his 'Saint Pablo' tour in 2016, when she sings: "I don't like your little games/ Don't like your tilted stage/ The role you made me play/ Of the fool/ No, I don't like you." A spokesperson for Spotify is yet to comment.