Olivier Rousteing loved the "challenge" of collaborating with Victoria's Secret on a lingerie line, and working with "experts who dominate" the fashion business. The 32-year-old fashion designer - who is the creative director of Balmain - has teamed up with the lingerie giant to create underwear sets for the brands upcoming fashion show, which will take place in Shanghai, China, on November 28, and the mogul has "very much enjoyed" working with the label and on a field he has not gained as much experience working in. Speaking to ElleUK.com about his latest venture, the businessman said: "Number one: I always love a challenge. I've very much enjoyed getting to know, partnering with and learning from the experts who dominate areas where I haven't really worked before - whether it's beauty, technology or, now, lingerie. "Two: I loved the challenge of bringing Balmain's Parisian couture heritage and vision to a wider, more global world. We've done this in the past, of course, with some other very successful collaborations, and it's exciting to bring a bit of our unique signature to a mainstream audience." VS X BALMAIN #fromPinktoPunk 11.29.2017 @victoriassecret @romeestrijd A post shared by OLIVIER R. (@olivier_rousteing) on Nov 15, 2017 at 7:16am PST  Olivier also found it "fun" working with the Victoria's Secret Angels, such as Alessandra Ambrosio, as well as Gigi and Bella Hadid , because he has collaborated with them before. He continued: "Three: Of course, I love the VS team. I've worked so closely with so many of the Angels and it's fun to work on a new collaboration with them again. "Four: I knew it would be a lot of fun. And I was right!" And Olivier has admitted he has "vivid memories" of the Victoria's Secret fashion shows. He said: "The same as everyone's! Watching incredible woman own the runway in a way that's so unlike the typical fashion show. I have such vivid memories of Giselle [Bündchen] and Tyra [Banks] - with their amazing smiles and incredible bodies - I loved how beautiful and empowered they were, and how they made it so clear that they were having such a great time." The Victoria's Secret x Balmain creations will be available to purchase immediately after the catwalk show airs on November 29.