If you don’t already have one in your wardrobe, you can definitely find one in your boyfriend, hubby or your dad’s. I’m talking about the classic blue and white shirt and now’s the time to raid their wardrobes to get your hands on one. As it’s name suggests, the banker stripe shirt (yes, there’s a name for it) has long been associated with bankers and businessmen office wear worn with a suite and tie. These shirts typically have white cuffs and a white collar. This masculine style effortlessly worked it’s way into the wardrobe of the business woman. Now this popular office attire is worn in a more relaxed way as well. This classic shirt has a received a modern makeover and now comes in various of different designs and silhouettes. Wraps, off the shoulder or ruffles are just a few of the options now available to the lover of this print. Your options for how to wear the banker stripe shirt is endless. At this year’s Paris Fashion week Christian Dior styled their white collar and cuff blue striped shirts by layering them under dresses and tops. Here are few tips on how you can wear this wardrobe essential this season: Keep it classy: Wear it with indigo or white jeans and a classic trench coat for a comfortably classic look. Wear the shirt tucked in or loose. Swap your jeans for a denim skirt for a feminine alternative. Mix it up: There’s always time for a print party. Since the stripe print is fairly subtle it can easily be mixed with other bold and brighter prints. Pretty much anything from florals to animal prints and who says you can’t mix dots and stripes. Layered look: Wear untucked under a jumper and pop the collar for a casual preppy look. Worn under a summer or slip dress it’s a winner as we transition from winter into spring. Beach bum: Worn unbuttoned, the shirt doubles as a throw-over. Perfect as a cover-up over a bikini or simply knotted at the waist when worn over a bikini top and cut-off denim shorts. Shape shifter: The classic shirt design will always be a wardrobe staple but the banker stripe has now taken on a variety of modern designs. Statement sleeves are huge this year. Choose from ruffled, extra long, voluminous or bell-shaped sleeves for a 2017 twist. Look for shoulder details like cut-outs, forced off the shoulder, or asymmetric for a dramatic flare. The longer length shirt dress is a simple one-piece that can be dressed up or down. Try a cropped shirt for a more sporty look or the oversized boyfriend style shirt. Where to shop the trendy shirt: