The title for the highly anticipated sequel to 'Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them' has been revealed, with the follow-up film called 'Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald'. The second of five adventures penned by 'Harry Potter' author J.K. Rowling has been revealed to be called 'Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald'. Following on from the end of the first film, the sequel sees the Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald [Johnny Depp] escaping from the Magical Congress of the United States of America (MACUSA). Now the wizard is gathering followers to raise pure-blood wizards up to rule over all non-magical beings. In order to stop him and his plans, a young Albus Dumbledore [Jude Law] enlists the help of Magizoologist Newt Scamander [Eddie Redmayne] who agrees to help, unaware of the dangers that lie ahead. Lines are drawn as love and loyalty are tested even among friends and family. The new film sees Redmayne and Depp reprising their respective roles alongside a number of other returning casts Katherine Waterston, 37, as Auror Tina Goldstein, Alison Sudol, 32, as Queenie and Dan Fogler, 41, as Jacob Fowalski. Ezra Miller, 25, is back as Credence, Zoe Kravitz, 28, will take on the role of Leta Lestrange and Callum Turner, 27, will play Newt's brother Theseus Scamander. David Yates, who helmed four 'Harry Potter' films and the first 'Fantastic Beasts', is set to return to the director's seat for the next instalment with Rowling penning the script for the story which is set in 1927. It will be produced by David Heyman, Rowling, Steve Kloves and Lionel Wigram. On Wednesday, the film was announced to be heading to cinemas on November 16, 2018, on the movie's official Twitter account. The magical franchise takes place years before Harry Potter is born or embarks on his adventures at Hogwarts and even before the rise of Lord Voldemort and follows Newt Scamander who travels the world protecting endangered magical creatures and documenting them. The adventures are set in the same universe that Rowling has created and will have numerous direct links to the world the author first created in her books and which was shown on screen in the movies starring Daniel Radcliffe as the bespectacled magical lad.