Cardi B has told her fans that she is going to make sure her songs are perfect before putting out her first album. The 'Bodak Yellow' hitmaker - whose real name is Belcalis Almanzar - has written a whole host of songs but wants to make sure they are top notch before letting any of them make the final cut. READ: Azealia Banks slams Cardi B Giving an update on her first record, Cardi wrote on Twitter on Sunday evening: I have a lot of pressure on me.I️ have songs stashed up .I just don’t think they qualified for my album .Sometimes i think is ready sometimes i think it’s not  so I’m going to take my time till it’s right. — iamcardib (@iamcardib) November 19, 2017   Meanwhile, the 25-year-old rapper recently found herself involved in a feud with fellow rapper Azealia Banks. The '212' singer accused Cardi of being fake, and said she doesn't believe she has the "black woman's expression". Azealia explained: "Dont get me wrong I'm very entertained by Cardi B, and I really like 'Bodak Yellow'. "That's a really good song, but you are not that girl. "It's just truth, it's just the truth, you know what I'm saying? I'm not trying to take anything from you, but you're just like - you know it's like this female rap thing, it's like a lineage. "It's a real fire that burns in a soul, you don't have that fire, I'm very happy for your success and I love your come-up and I love like seeing you smile and having a good time. "But this like, woman's expression, this black woman's expression ... just the fire of the black woman's expression ... you don't have it, Cardi. And you won't get it, because it's not you." The 26-year-old star subsequently drew a parallel between Cardi and Iggy Azalea, suggesting both rappers are just corporate creations. She said previously: "We've seen this movie before, it was called Iggy Azalea. You know what I mean? "Like, I've seen this movie before. I know exactly what you guys do. You buy a No. 1 and then you buy a Grammy, you know? It's just like ... it's all being paid for. I'm not at all trying to take anything away from you. "S**t, I'd f***ing love if someone paid for me to f***ing get an award. That's great. But I'm that girl. Nicki Minaj is that girl. Remy Ma is that girl. Cardi B is not that girl. Iggy Azalea is not that girl."