Cape Town’s last act standing, AnecNote,  stayed true to their promise to bring the coveted title back home. At the final, staged at the Soweto Theatre last night, the a cappella group beat out five other acts to scoop bragging rights and bag the R500 000 grand prize! Second runners-up Art of Dance gave it their all, but just weren’t good enough to beat AnecNote, whose high notes and harmonising bowled over the judges, audience and viewers, who voted them tops. Judge Shado Twala said: “It’s been an emotional rollercoaster for us as judges. South Africa, has chosen their talent.” Just Six opened up the show with pitchy vocals when they performed Michael Jackson’s Heal the World. The a cappella boy band was uitgevat in blue suits and colourful ties and was the first act called out of the winning line. Art of Dance was next with Pharrell’s Freedom. The energetic group of young dancers showed off all their moves to the roaring crowd who gave them a standing ovation. Mom of one, Siphokazi, blew the audience away with a classic opera song, Andrea Bochelli’s The Prayer. Dressed in an elegant blue diamante-studded ball gown, Siphokazi brought all three judges to tears: “Last week you sang in German, tonight it’s Italian. There are not enough languages to say yes, yes, yes!” Nan Hua Dancers impressed the crowd with what they called their “Asian art”, but that didn’t win over the judges. Jamie said he wasn’t moved by the performance while Shado said she expected more. Traditional African Dance group Amazebra filled the stage with high jumps and flips as they danced to the beat of the drum. But it was Anecnote, who performed a medley of South African hits from yesteryear, who stole the show. Looking stunning in black and gold ensembles, the quintet came dressed to win and received a standing ovation from both the judges and audience. The group was also DJ Fresh’s Golden Buzzer choice at the beginning of the show. An ecstatic Daniel Nambassi said: “This is a win for a cappella all over South Africa, we are extremely happy,. Thank you, SA.” Cape opera singer James Bhemgee previously won the e.tv talent show in 2010. Daily Voice