Thanks partly to the success of popular reality shows, Cape Town will now host its first antiques fair, writes Marchelle Abrahams. How many times have you looked at your silver tea set and wondered how much it’s worth? Thanks to the success of TV shows like Antique Roadshow and American Pickers, the world is enjoying a resurgence in valuable collectables - and it’s not just overseas. Alphen Estate in Constantia will be hosting the National Cape Antiques Fair starting Friday to Sunday. The event is an offshoot of the biggest and most prestigious antiques fair, which is held in Johannesburg each year, and visitors can expect to see no less than 15 dealers showcasing antiques, art, collectables and decorative arts. “The popularity of collecting is a worldwide trend, made even more popular by the many TV antique reality programmes such as the British Antique Roadshow or the American Pickers or Pawn Star programmes, is at an all-time high,” comments Clyde Terry, antiques dealer and fair organiser. These shows have opened the collectables market to all ages, particularly millennials. No longer seen as a hobby for restless old folk, picking has now become mainstream, with some even making a handsome living off it. “The National Cape Antique Fair will cater to all these collecting genres, such as our Dutch antique dealer who finds unique pieces linking Holland to South Africa, our 20th Century furniture specialist or the dealer who scours the country to find that old Coca Cola fridge or old advertising signs,” adds Terry. If you are curious to know if that inherited pearl necklace is worth anything, now’s your chance. Stephan Welz Auctioneers have partnered with the fair to hold daily valuations without charging an evaluation fee. Instead, donations will be taken in aid of the South African Riding for the Disabled Association (Sarda). The fair is also a chance for homeowners to add that special statement piece to their interiors. Perhaps an impressive armoire or an antique side-board? Or add to your collection of silver porcelain figurines. Event info: The National Cape Antique Fair runs from November 17-19 (10am to 6pm) Venue: The Great Cellar, Alphen Estate R50 per person Visit: www.thecollector.co.za/