Adonis 1 serving Ingredients Ice 2 dashes orange bitters 42 g sweet vermouth (see note) 42 g dry sherry, preferably chilled (see note) Twist of orange peel, for garnish Method Chill a cocktail coupe. Fill a mixing glass with ice. Add the bitters, vermouth and sherry and stir briefly to chill. Strain into the chilled coupe. T wist the orange peel over the surface of the drink to express the oils, then drop it into the glass. Note If you can, chill the sherry and vermouth in advance to cut down on mixing time and avoid over- dilution. Adapted from "The Art of the Shim" by Dinah Sanders Bitter Harbor 1 serving Ingredients 1 large ice cube, plus ice for mixing 56 g tawny port 28 g mezcal 42 g Gran Classico Bitter liqueur (see note) Twist of orange peel, for garnish Method Put the ice cube in a rocks glass. Fill a mixing glass with ice, then add the port, mezcal and liqueur; stir briefly to chill. Strain into the glass. Twist the orange peel over the surface of the drink to express the oils, then drop it into the glass. Note Gran Classico Bitter is a lovely addition to any liqueur library, but if you don't have it, try substituting it with Campari and add 1 teaspoon of dry curacao. From Spirits columnist M. Carrie Allan. Shoulder Season 1 serving Ingredients Ice 2 dashes Angostura bitters 42 g ounces dry vermouth 28 g oude genever (see note) 20 g pear liqueur, such as Mathilde 7 Velvet Falernum or homemade falernum (see note) Freshly grated nutmeg, for garnish Method Chill a cocktail coupe. Fill a mixing glass with ice. Add the bitters, vermouth, genever, pear liqueur and falernum and stir briefly to chill. Strain into the coupe and sprinkle a little nutmeg over the surface. Note Velvet Falernum is a citrus and clove liqueur that, with the spices in the Angostura, gives this vermouth-based drink an autumnal edge. Use a good dry vermouth and if you can, chill the vermouth in advance to cut down on mixing time and avoid over-dilution. From Spirits columnist M. Carrie Allan. 