Johannesburg - The Namola App that was rolled out nationally last week, and which has been billed as SA’s ‘Uber for emergencies’, is proving to be a hit with South Africans, having recently passed the 100 000 user mark. The new app, released in partnership with Dialdirect Insurance, is basically a panic button on your phone that links a 24/7 response call centre with your GPS coordinates to send help your way fast. Namola says its call centre staff are trained to handle any type of incident from break-ins to fires to urgent medical issues, but it’s also a great tool for motorists on the go. If you’ve had an accident, or witnessed one, where the response of police and/or medics is required, getting help is as simple as opening the app and pressing the Request Assistance button. From there the call centre will make contact with you, ask the type of assistance needed and dispatch the correct service whether it’s the police, fire department or ambulances. There’s also a built in SMS function in case it’s not possible to speak aloud during the emergency. Namola claims to not only cut down response time, but also offers a dedicated agent who will remain in contact with you throughout the emergency. It also improves efficiencies and alleviates pressures placed on 10111 centres by pre-screening alerts and pinpointing the user’s exact location, making it easy for emergency services to find them. “Namola is a smart complement to 10111,” says Warwick Scott-Rodger, Executive Head of Dialdirect. “Your call will always be answered and the information will be passed on to the nearest police station. “Namola doesn’t guarantee that the police will be on time, but it improves your chances to get help greatly.” According to Yusuf Abramjee, crime activist and Namola Chief ambassador: “Namola was initially launched as an ‘Uber for police’ in the City of Tshwane and later, Gauteng. It was introduced to give victims of crime access to a new innovative way of contacting the police.” Namola is free to download and is available in the Apple App Store or Google Play. Visit www.namola.com for more information. Drive360