Langebaan, just an hour and a half from Cape Town, is an exciting place to visit away from the city. Every type of holiday maker is catered for here: . Sports fan: The Langebaan Country Estate offers running and cycling, tennis and netball, golf on a magnificent 18-hole Gary Player Designs, Black Knight course, bowls and foot golf, a games centre and a spa. Relax: Holidaymakers can simply relax and enjoy the excellent climate and incredible views of the famous Langebaan Lagoon. Wine time: The award-winning wines of the West Coast and Swartland wine routes have attracted cult followings, and many exceptional estates are between 30 minutes (Darling) and 90 minutes (Riebeeck Valley) away by car. If you have more time, take a longer trip up to the wine farms of Vredendal and Lutzville to discover the region described as “one of the most ideal wine growing areas due to its mild climate, misty mornings, sunny days and southwesterly sea breeze”. Do you want something exciting but educational? Langebaanweg is a world-renowned fossil site where a team of international researchers is currently unravelling the fascinating and unique history and the environment and climate of the West Coast some 5 million years ago. Learn more about the bears, sabre-tooth cats, short-necked giraffes and the other exotic animals that once inhabited this area at the West Coast Fossil Park. Something for the culture vultures? The first people of the Western Cape were the San. Khwa!ttu combines adventure, relaxation and education that leaves a lasting impression and gives a new understanding of the culture, heritage, knowledge, skills and contemporary life of the San. Guided tours are offered daily at 10 am and  2 pm. Did someone mention birds? Langebaan Lagoon is the most important wetland in South Africa for waders and 250 species can been spotted from bird hides at Geelbek and Oude Pos in the West Coast National Park. According to Birdlife South Africa, “the coastal strandveld supports several restricted-range and biome-restricted assemblage species, including the recently described Cape Long-billed Lark”.