Disney On Ice is back next year, as Tinker Bell takes audiences on an enchanting pixie-dust filled journey of beloved Disney tales in a new show, entitled Disney On Ice Presents Dream Big. Believing is just the beginning when the empowering tales of eight Disney Princesses - Ariel, Belle, Cinderella, Rapunzel, Tiana, Jasmine, Aurora and Snow White - embark on incredible adventures, determined to make their dreams come true. In addition, experience the sisterly love that has captivated millions as Disney’s Frozen is brought to life on the icy stage. Suburbicon: Stylish, funny & entertaining film Little Mermaid star Ariel makes a splash as she yearns to explore life above the waves. Watch Rapunzel, Cinderella and Belle as they learn about the power to make their own magic. Travel to the wintry world of Arendelle ,with royal sisters Anna and Elsa, and the hilarious Olaf from Disney’s Frozen, as they learn that true love is the greatest magic of all. Be there to discover a whole new world with the daring Jasmine, and join Snow White, Aurora and Tiana as they remind you to always be strong, kind and fearless. High-flying jumps, daring acrobatics, breathtaking skating and those lovable Disney characters all combine to make this an eye-catching experience. “Before dreaming up this show, we reflected on what makes Disney’s leading ladies so unique,” said Producer Kenneth Feld. “Having three daughters, it didn’t take long to realise that every princess had one thing in common: each one had a dream and the determination to make it a reality. We wanted to share that inspirational message with our audiences by celebrating the stories of these courageous young women and the friends that helped them along the way.” Presented by Feld Entertainment and leading local promoter, Showtime Management, Disney On Ice Presents Dream Big opens on Friday, June 22, at the Ticketpro Dome, Johannesburg ,and runs until Sunday, July 1. The production then moves to Durban’s ICC from Wednesday, July 4, to Sunday, July 8, and then to GrandWest, Cape Town, from Wednesday, July 11 to Sunday, July 15. There’s an extra incentive to get your tickets early with a special one-off Disney On Ice early bird 15% discount across all full price tickets valid for the month of November only. LOOK: Skolopad rocks a sausage frock at #FeatherAwards2017 * Tickets are now on sale for this not-to-be-missed family winter school holiday outing. Book at Computicket (0861 915 8000), visit www.compu-ticket.com or your nearest Computicket service centre. Patrons are asked to please note that owing to safety regulations each person, irrespective of age (including babes in arms and children under two years) must have a purchased ticket. To discover more about Disney On Ice, log on to www.disneyonice.co.za IOL