If you are planning to visit Cape Town this summer, make sure you spend a few hours at one of their markets. Filled with fresh produce, the best artisanal products and fashion, these markets are worth a visit. Here are our 5 picks: Bay Harbour Market Where: 31 Harbour Market, Hout Bay, Cape Town
Contact: 083 275 5586 or visit their Facebook page. At Bay Harbour Market, a melting pot of cultures join together to engage in banter, good food and music. One can easily spend an entire day at the market with over 120 stalls of food, clothing  and music on offer. There are wooden jungle gyms for children. The Neighbourgoods Market Where: The Old Biscuit Mill: 373 Albert Road Woodstock Cape Town South Africa
Contact: www.neighbourgoodsmarket.co.za The market is located in a sky-lit warehouse of The Old Biscuit Mill. It is  home to some of the finest local produce and designs. The market is opened every Saturday, from 9am to 3pm, where an assortment of food is offered. Travellers can bring along their dogs. A calendar of seasonal events, specialty festivals, and live music are held throughout the year. Oranjezicht City Farm Market Where: Granger Bay, V&A Waterfront
Contact: 083 628 3426 or email market@ozcf.co.za Held every Saturday, from 9am to 2pm, the Oranjezicht City Farm Market has views of the Atlantic and Table Mountain. With over 60 traders, the market offers everything from seafood, meat, milk and delicious meals. Customers can also buy edible plants and seedlings, compost, gardening supplies and equipment. Organisers will host a night market on December 13 and 14. While the market is free on Saturday, the night markets will cost R20pp. 
 Green Market Square Where: Burg St & Longmarket Street, Cape Town City Centre  Contact:  Visit their Facebook page  A visit to the Cape Town City Centre is not complete without taking a stroll through the vibrant and colourful stalls on offer at the Green Market Square. The market offers souvenirs that are unique to South Africa, from the Big 5 to African art. Make sure you browse through the selection of clothing, shoes and artworks on offer. 
 
The Lourensford Market Address: Lourensford Wine Estate, Lourensford Rd, Somerset West, Cape Town, 7130
Phone: 072 284 1654 or https://www.lfhm.co.za/ The market is located at the historic Lourensford Wine Estate. With more than 70 permanent stalls and pop ups, the market offers food, fashion and music. Their signature Friday night Twilight Market has become the local, after-work hangout where friends and family come together to ease into the weekend. The market is opened every Friday, from 5pm to 9pm, and Sundays, from 10am to 3pm.