Our team of motoring journalists, having driven all the newly-launched vehicles during the course of the year, will soon be casting their votes on an overall winner and category victors. So keep reading Drive360 and IOL Motoring in the coming weeks as we whittle them down to a shortlist before announcing the winners in early December. This year we’re adding an exciting new readers’ choice category called Coolest Ride. Scan through list of cars below, SUVs and bakkies launched during 2017 and vote on which vehicle floats your boat or makes you weak at the knees. There’s no price limit or restrictions; simply tell us which one of the vehicles listed below you’d most like to own if money was no object. How to enter, and win Email your vote to denis.droppa@inl.co.za with Coolest Ride in the subject line. If the vehicle you choose ends up as the winner of the Coolest Ride category, you stand a chance of winning a free ticket to attend our Drive360 Awards ceremony in Jozi on December 1. Also, participate in our social media campaign by voting for your Coolest Ride on Ṭwitter or Instagram using the #Drive360Awards and #CoolestRide hashtags, and in a few words tell us why that car is your favourite. You could win a prize: Gauteng readers can win tickets to the Bryan Adams concert, while the Durban winner gets a weekend away for two at the Wild Coast Sun and the Cape Town winner bags a weekend away for a family of four at any Tsogo Sun in the Cape. Prize winners will be responsible for their own transport costs. Choose between these cars launched in the last year: Alfa Romeo Giulia Audi A5 Audi R8 Spyder Audi RS3 Sedan  Audi Q2 Audi Q5 BAIC D20 BMW 5 Series BMW 6 Series GT BMW M760Li xDrive BMW X3 Ford Kuga Fiat Panda Fiat Tipo Kia Picanto Haval H6 Haval H2 Honda CR-V Hyundai Creta Hyundai Elantra Jaguar F-Type 400 Kia Rio Kia Sportage Land Rover Discovery Lexus LC500 Maserati Levante Mahindra TUV 300 Mazda CX-5 McLaren 720S Mercedes-AMG C43 Mercedes-AMG E63 S Mercedes-AMG GLC 43 4Matic Mercedes E-Class Coupe Mercedes E-Class Convertible Mini Countryman Mini Countryman JCW All-4 Mitsubishi Pajero Sport Mitsubishi Triton Nissan Micra Active Nissan Navara Opel Mokka X Peugeot 3008 Porsche 911 GTS Porsche 911 GT3 Porsche Panamera Range Rover Velar Renault Clio RS Subaru Impreza Suzuki Baleno Suzuki Ignis Toyota 86 Toyota C-HR Toyota Yaris Pulse VW Amarok V6 VW Golf GTD Volvo S90 