DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs have expressed their desire to extend the contract of second-choice goal-minder Brilliant “BK” Khuzwayo. The uMlazi-born goalkeeper is in the last eight months of his current contract with Amakhosi. Last month he wrote on his Twitter account that sometimes hard work is not enough when you don’t fit in the picture frame, which hinted that he is not happy at Chiefs. Khuzwayo joined Amakhosi in 2012 from AmaZulu. He has been playing second fiddle to Khune during his five-year stint with Amakhosi. His agent Tim Sukazi of Quality Talent Sports told Independent Media that Khuzwayo is happy at Chiefs. “Chiefs want us to open talks. They want to avoid a situation where Brilliant can be in a position to talk with other teams, since his contract is expiring on June 30, 2018. In January, he can start talks with any team,” Sukazi said. “Chiefs want us to finish talks before the end of December. People took his Twitter post out of context. He is still happy at Chiefs, and Chiefs are also happy with him.   “Brilliant was indicating to other things that are outside of football. He was not trying to suggest that he is not happy at Chiefs. I had a word with him after the tweet, and he told me he is still happy at Chiefs.” Khune has been in top form this season, and was chosen as the best player in August and September. “Khune has been brilliant this season. He started the season on a high note, and Brilliant is in full support of Khune. He understands the situation, and is waiting for his chance. He is working hard at training,” Sukazi said. Orlando Pirates supporters have expressed their interest in Khuzwayo on social media. Pirates have struggled to find a suitable replacement for the late Senzo Meyiwa. “No one has contacted me. Even if they do, I won’t entertain them. We are not allowed because it is outside the transfer window. Pirates are one of the oldest teams and they know the rules better. I doubt they can call us during this time,” Sukazi concluded. @Minenhlecr7 IOL Sport Like IOL Sport on Facebook 