Gigi Hadid gave an inspiring speech to fellow females after collecting Glamour's Women of the Year Award at this year's ceremony in Brooklyn on Monday night. The 22-year-old fashion model - who is dating former One Direction star Zayn Malik - received the Woman of the Year prize at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at the Kings Theatre in Brooklyn on Monday, and Gigi used her acceptance speech to say that just because she appears to have a perfect life, she still suffers the same self-doubts as other people. READ: Zayn Malik and Gigi Hadid celebrate two year anniversary After collecting her award from tennis ace Serena Williams, Gigi said: "I think my biggest responsibility, standing here, is to all the young women who are watching. Couldn't have asked for a better way to celebrate the launch of #gigixmaybelline 💛💄 HUGE THANKS to my @maybelline family and everyone who worked so hard to make last night in London so special. x ⚡️💫 A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) on Nov 8, 2017 at 2:48am PST "I want to let you know that just because I'm standing here, winning this award, doesn't mean that I have it all figured out. "I'm so grateful for every opportunity, but that doesn't mean that I wake up feeling like the Gigi the world expects me to be on a daily basis." The blonde beauty explained that although she experiences her fair share of doubt and heartache, it's important to remember that "a small idea" can transform her outlook. The model continued: "If you don't feel strong every day, that's okay, and it's normal. "Every day, something new can inspire you, and a small thought or idea or action can change the course of your day, your week, your month, your year. You're never alone, and you're never stuck, no matter how down you feel." Gigi also advised her fellow females to look to one another in their times of need. She said: "Our success is never just about us, it's also about all women that paved the way so we could be here. "It's about the women we surround ourselves with and the characteristics we value, the inspiration and motivation women everywhere can give us to be better." Dedicating her prize to all the strong women in the world, Gigi concluded: "So tonight, I celebrate all of you being honoured and celebrate women all over the world. You help people everywhere to think, 'Yeah, I can do this,' whatever 'this' may be, and you are amongst the women that inspired me to better myself and to seize my life. "So thank you, and remember that we're stronger when we celebrate each other." Other honourees on the night included Icon winner Nicole Kidman - who was supported at the bash by her husband Keith Urban - and 'Wonder Woman' director Patty Jenkins, who was handed her award by the franchise's original actress, Lynda Carter. Singer Solange Knowles, comedienne Samantha Bee, astronaut Peggy Whitson, congresswoman Maxine Waters, Syrian activist Muzoon Almellehan and Italian fashion Maria Grazia Chiuri were also all honoured at the ceremony.