Jordin Sparks has got married in secret and is pregnant with her first child with husband Dana Isaiah, and the pair are "really excited" for the pending arrival and are "proud" to be husband and wife. The 27-year-old singer wed her 25-year-old beau Dana Isaiah in private earlier this year, and the newlyweds are "really excited" to announce even more exciting news that they are also expecting a baby together. Speaking to PEOPLE, the 'Battlefield' hitmaker said: "We're both really excited. He's been like, 'I want to shout it from the mountain tops!' We're really proud to be married to each other and to be celebrating this." The couple first met in February this year and tied the knot five months later, and though the couple have been together for under one year, they knew the moment they set eyes on one another they would soon be husband and wife. Jordin - who dated fellow musician Jason Derulo for three years before they split in 2014 - said: "I'd gone through a crazy time last year, so I was just like 'You know what? I'm good. I'm going to stay single. I'm just not going to look.' It's amazing that that phrase 'When you don't look for it, that's when it comes' ... he just showed up at my door. "A couple days after we had actually met, I was like in my head 'That's going to be my husband! That's my husband right there.' "When I'm with him, I feel comfort and safety and calm and peace, and those aren't things that I normally felt. So it was a little wake-up call for me." Jordin and Dana eloped in July to exchange wedding vows in front of an intimate selection of friends and family because they wanted to be the centre of attention. The 'American Idol' champion - who was crowned the winner of the talent show in 2007 - explained: "It just more solidifies the whole team sentiment of a relationship. You know you're still individuals, but at the same time everything is about 'we' and 'us' as opposed to 'you' and 'I.'" And just one month later the brunette beauty discovered she was pregnant, which came as a huge "shock" at first. She said: "It's been really crazy because everything changes. Once we got over the initial shock of it, now again just like it is with the marriage, to be able to share that this amazing thing is happening, it's such a great thing. We did this together." But the whirlwind few months has left Jordin feeling the "most content" she has ever felt in her life. She said: "I'm extremely grateful because life is nuts. This is the best part so far because I have [Dana] and I have this little one and I have a new family. I'm the most content I've ever been in my life."