Cape Town - The City of Cape Town has handed over hundreds of title deeds to first-time home owners in three communities in the past week. According to a statement on Thursday, a total of 330 title deeds were handed over to property owners of government's breaking new ground housing developments in Heideveld, Kleinvlei and Roosendal.   On Thursday, 100 property owners from the Heideveld housing development received their title deeds from the City’s Transport and Urban Development Authority. This follows Wednesday's handover of 60 title deeds to property owners from Kleinvlei and last week’s 170 title deeds that were handed over to beneficiaries of the Roosendal housing development in Delft. The statement from the City said among the property owners who received their title deeds was pensioner Latiefa Davids, 77, who had previously lived in a rental unit. “I am enjoying my new home and I am happy with my neighbours. I am grateful to be living here. We have a good neighbourhood watch. I am able to open my heart and my house to those who are less fortunate,” said Davids. New property owner Mentoor Theron, 64, from Kleinvlei had been on the government housing database for 26 years and had previously lived in backyards in areas such as Eersterivier, Macassar and Stellenbosch. “When I received my house, I decided to name it “Genade dal” (Grace valley) because I believe that I received my house by grace. I did not lose hope so I would like to encourage others who are still on the housing database to have faith and keep praying until they get their houses,” said Theron. Last year the City’s organisational development and transformation plan was adopted by Council to improve how the administration works, with a focus on transit-oriented development. These housing developments are accessible as they are situated along public transport corridors. “The handing over of title deeds is worth celebrating as some of our most vulnerable residents are being empowered as first-time property owners. These title deeds are also more than just a piece of paper, but an example of the City’s commitment to redressing the inequality of the apartheid past, a period where people were denied ownership of property,” said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Transport and Urban Development, Councillor Brett Herron. “We encourage the owners to look after their properties and to make responsible decisions regarding their homes as these houses are valuable financial assets, which will bring them a step closer to economic freedom.”  African News Agency