Durban - It’s the talk of the town and has been drawing customers from as far as the Midlands, South Coast and even Gauteng. That’s The Market, a dedicated artisan food warehouse and food court that opened in Ballito’s Lifestyle Centre last week. It’s a large shed that’s part food court, part restaurant, part market, that is filled with a number of small and interesting artisanal food producers. The emphasis is on craft and organic, the atmosphere relaxed and the style upmarket. “‘I wish we had this in Johannesburg,’ that’s what one of my customers told me,” says Tiffany Avern-Taplin working at the deli counter at Bavarian Deli, whose eisbeins are sold out every day.  “It’s a space where customers can grab some meat and cheese from us, some fresh bread from Yoli’s and some olives and order a bottle of wine from the pub and sit and relax and eat. Everyone can get involved,” she says. The deli specialises in hand cured charcuterie and sausages with the thumbs up from German fleishmeister Roland Reichelt. The certification is proudly on display. Robson’s Brewery has opened a second outlet in The Market with its same trademark interesting pub grub menu and craft beers. Manager Edwin Moss, who started his career with Beluga in Cape Town, which hopes to get into the gin and mampoer market soon. He fell in love with the concept. “It reminds me of the Watershed in Cape Town,” he says. “Very open and relaxed and just what Ballito has been missing. A hall dedicated to craft. Fresh breads, croissants and pastries at Yoli’s bakery Brandon Mateus, manager at Birds and Co, agrees. The outlet features fresh woodfired pizzas - you can see your pizzas being made and coming out of the over, and a range of gourmet chicken treat. The menu includes items like thunder thighs and chicken burgers. “All fresh and all cooked to order,” he says. Anton Petzer, owner of Fish, specialises in both fresh and cooked seafood. Linefish is on display to cook out, or a range fish and chips to eat in. Fresh oysters are also available. Sushi chef Nkosi Shozi is making fresh all day, and offering a range of sushi that includes rolls with chilli. "The good thing is that our sushi is sold by the piece so you can make up your own platter,” says Petzer. Taylor’s Meats and More is a butchery that offers everything from biltong to dry-aged steaks, while Seasonal and Organic specialises in vegetables and dairy items. We are Food offers a range of ready meals for the busy housewife, while Yoli’s is an artisanal bakery, with the kitchen on display. Nathi Mtshali offers up his ginger shots at the Juice Kitchen. It’s a powerful tonic. He offers a range of power fruit and vegetable juices to order or take away. They also serve up nourishing soups. Across the way Prithie Bodash serves up the authentic Indian curries and bunny chows she learnt at her grandmother’s knee at her new venture Cumin and Coriander.   Brian Mbambo pours an espresso at The Science of Coffee after explaining the coffee roasting process. And then across the drag is Alexa McWilliams of Olive-A-Twist whose olive bar has been famed around Durban’s food markets for some years. For Dalene Steyn owner of Orchids and Exotics, orchids were a hobby she has turned into a thriving business. She started out at a local nursery and now believes she’s the only dedicated orchid shop in SA. The Science of Coffee, a local roastery  in Umhlali has a store including a seating area amid bags of coffee beans. He tells how while doing his Phd on coffee he starting experimenting with roasting and it turned into a thriving business. Here there is a table with a range of mini roasters, where you can choose your raw beans from top single estates around Africa and roast them yourself. “You too can be an expert,” barista Brian Mbambo says as he talks one through the process. Owner Maro Zaradoukis stands in front of her lemon wall at her refurbished coffee shop Zara’s. She believe lemons are the zest of life and add flavour to food. For Maro Zaradoukis, owner of local coffee shop Zara’s which itself has had a major refurbishment, it has given her a new zest for life. Standing in front of her lemon wall, she says. “I’m excited again. This is magnificent. What they’ve done is just what Ballito needed.” And why lemons. “They’re medicine for the soul. They uplift flavour and mood,” she says. The Independent on Saturday