JOHANNESBURG - Audit firm Deloitte Africa on Monday celebrated the start of construction on its iconic new Africa headquarters, with a sod-turning ceremony onsite at Waterfall City, Midrand. Deloitte was joined by South African property investment company Atterbury Property, and JSE‐listed premier property company Attacq Limited. Atterbury and Attacq are co‐owners in a 50/50 joint venture on the development of the new Deloitte premises. While bulk earthworks for the project began in October this year, this sod‐turning ceremony signified the official commencement of development. The 42,500m2 ultra‐modern offices are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2020, and Deloitte plans to begin operating from its new base from April 2020. The new premises will consolidate Deloitte’s current Woodmead and Pretoria offices into a single central location at Waterfall. Atterbury chief executive, Louis van der Watt, said he believed that their deep understanding of Deloitte's operational business needs will ensure the project’s success in the years ahead. "This development will not only provide Deloitte with room to grow as a business, but also be an asset that supports them in attracting new talent and continuing to serve their expanding market," van der Watt said. Mike Jarvis, chief operating officer at Deloitte Africa, said they were excited about their new custom-designed headquarters for Deloitte Africa in what is clearly a sought-after corporate destination. "This new centre of operation gears our Africa Firm to attract the best talent, serve our expanding market, and consolidate approximately 3700 of our people to make an even greater impact with our clients and communities," Jarvis said. The building, which will enjoy prime positioning alongside the Allandale interchange of the N1 highway, has space capacity for close to 5,000 people and promises Deloitte prominent highway frontage at the eastern side of Waterfall City as well as its clients and talent easy and quick access to its premises. - African News Agency