CAPE TOWN - Still without a single win from 11 outings for Ubuntu Cape Town means bottom place on the National First Division standings for the club formerly known as FC Cape Town. And while still winless, the fact a point was picked up on the road in a goalless draw with second-placed University of Pretoria at Tuks Stadium would have lifted the spirits of the players and maybe a change in fortunes is on the cards. The chance to do that presents itself on Sunday in East London against Mthatha Bucks (kick-off 3.30pm), who come into the encounter off a 2-0 loss away to Black Leopards and without a win from three attempts. Denting Ubuntu’s hopes has been the lack of goals; six only for the season with former Cape Town All Stars player Ranga Chivaviro netting four of them and Sherwin Bailey and Mhlengi Sigwebela getting one each. Defensively, a goal a game conceded is not too bad when compared with the other 15 teams that make up the division - frontrunners Highlands Park co-lead with Real Kings having been breached seven times. The fact that Ubuntu, who have propped up the log for the past six-and-a-half weeks,  have drawn more games (six) than they’ve lost (five) shows them to be a useful unit and hopefully the players will step up to the plate and deliver a positive result for themselves and their supporters. As for the side’s coach, Casey Prince, he will know that the pressure is on him to get that first win as a matter of haste; already 11 coaches have been sacked, the latest casualty being Serbian Vladislav Heric who was dumped by Cape Town All Stars this week in favour of Brandon Truter after five games in charge. Heric, who guided Bay United and Chippa United to promotion in seasons gone by, was brought on board after the axing of former Bafana Bafana defender David Kannemeyer, who was shown the door six games into the campaign. “I was relieved of my duties on Tuesday,” said Heric, this after winning two games and losing three, two of which were away. “With three home games coming up, I believed that we were set to get maximum points because the players were getting better.” Ninth-placed All Stars were in action last night hosting 13th-placed KZN league rookies Uthongathi FC. The Cape’s third NFD team, Stellenbosch FC, travel to KwaZulu-Natal to take on Real Kings. The men from the Winelands were held to a 2-2 draw by Jomo Cosmos last time out in a home fixture played in Durban, thus extending their winless run that started at the end of September to five games. The one point earned wasn’t enough to keep them in fifth spot; they’re now down a slot, this after having topped the log for a long period earlier in the season. Weekend Argus