RAPULA MOATSHE There was much delight expressed on Thursday in Temba at the official launch of a local electricity depot. The opening of the facility, valued at R500 000, would had revived hopes of a better, efficient and quicker response to complaints regarding faulty high-mast lights and streetlights. MMC for Utility Services, Darryl Moss, marked the official opening of the depot by cutting a ribbon at the ceremony hosted at the facility located on Jubilee Road. He told those in attendance that the depot would benefit residents in Temba, Hammanskraal and other surrounding areas in terms of ensuring a quicker turnaround time to repair public lighting. "Residents of this area know we are opening the facility and they will expect a better performance," he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He said in the past residents would wait for days before the reported faulty streetlights could be repaired. The establishment of the facility was started almost 18 months ago and it consisted of change-rooms, a canteen facility, offices, storeroom and parking areas. Moss said the establishment of the depot was to improve service delivery, where the problems were encountered by people. He said the occasion called for a celebration, especially for electricity workers who would travel for 60km to a depot in region one to collect a globe, for example. "We know how you have been inconvenienced to have to travel for 60km, and that made your life difficult. I hope the establishment of the depot will improve your life. "It now means there will be more efficiency because the guys don't have to travel distances to fetch globes.The turnaround time to do repairs will be much quicker. The community can expect quicker turnaround time to repair public lighting such as high mast lights and streetlights and If the streetlights are out they can expect much quicker response, within 24 hours," Moss said.