Lufthansa unveiled the concept for its brand-new Business class this week, and judging by its pictures, it is going to be a good one. It will be available on regular routes for the first time in 2020, with the roll-out of the Boeing 777-9. Lufthansa guests can not only look forward to beds with a length of 220 cm (86.6 inches), but a good sleep. The construction of the back rest makes it possible for the shoulder to sink in when you are lying on your side. This keeps the spine straight and makes it possible for side sleepers to also benefit from ideally healthy and relaxing sleep. The brand-new Business class seat was developed exclusively for the German premium airline together with Lufthansa’s customers. Over 500 guests provided in-depth support during the development phases.
Harry Hohmeister, Member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, said the new, ultra-modern Lufthansa Business Class creates a new global benchmark. 
“It offers our passengers a unique travel experience. Our focus has always been customer centred. We want to provide them with the perfect travel experience. The new Business class showcases the full innovative capacity of Lufthansa,” he says. Compared to its predecessors, the Boeing 777-9 has a considerably wider cabin. In the new All passengers in the new Business class will have direct access to the aisle. This is made possible by a 1-2-1 and 1-1-1 seat configuration. The new seats has personal space, more privacy and generous storage compartments and flat surfaces. Passengers can choose between extended-length bed or a seat with twice as much desk space. 
 
Thanks to digital interfaces, all the functions of the seat as well as the in-flight entertainment system can be controlled using the passenger’s personal device.  Smartphones and tablets can be recharged at the seat using wireless technology. And in the future, anyone who wants to watch one of the movies from the extensive entertainment program will experience the blockbusters on much larger screens in full HD. Mattresses that have been developed exclusively for Lufthansa will be provided on long intercontinental flights in  2018. On request, passengers will also be provided with sleeping sweaters.