Travel Concepts, which forms part of The Concepts Collection, are leaders in handcrafting luxurious event, wedding and travel experiences across Southern Africa. With Cape Town expecting its typical surge of tourist arrivals at this time of year, despite the water crisis, we spoke with Travel Concepts founder, Richard Holt about art in the city. “Cape Town has got it all in terms of scenic beauty and as we like to describe it, natural art at its finest. However, look past the obvious scenic splendor and you will find a hugely creative city with a burgeoning and inspiring art scene in many other forms." Here they share a few of their top artistic picks the Mother City has to offer: CONTEMPORARY ART: The Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa There are few superlatives that describe this new architectural masterpiece which is a piece of contemporary art in its own right.  Whether you have an interest in art or not, walking into the atrium and dramatic honeycombed interior will leave you spellbound. The Zeitz MOCAA is also what modern African artists have been waiting for – their very own Tate Modern or MoMA – to use as a platform from which to tell their stories. Located in the former forsaken grain silos at the V&A Waterfront, this marvel of a museum houses 100 galleries spread over nine floors, featuring 21st-century work from artists spanning from all over the continent. The 360-degree views of Cape Town from the 9th floor rooftop sculpture garden just add to the artistic splendor. EMERGING ART: Maboneng Township Art Experiences Winner of global public art and tourism awards, this hugely interesting community initiative based on the belief that townships are the epicenter of art around the world. The Maboneng Township Art Experience turns local homes into personal galleries and outdoor spaces into vibrant performance districts. Started by Siphiwe Ngwenya, artist and Alexandra township local, this inspired initiative aims to change local perceptions of art as an activity of only the elite upper class, by training local artists, empowering the youth, and creating jobs through art. The regular escorted tours curate an artistic journey into the homes of loving Langa and Gugulethu families and make the experience a really unforgettable one. Art stretches far beyond paintbrush to canvas at La Colombe – and this is where Head Chef Scot Kirton’s flair for innovation is delivered through his detail driven passion and right onto your dinner plate! Kirton’s exquisite plating skills are a precise art; balanced and perfectly harmonious. His team’s faultless techniques are awe inspiring to say the least, and this is why we think a visit to La Colombe needs to be on your ‘Cape Town Art’ itinerary! Recently voted as the 7th Best Restaurant in the World by TripAdvisor, our advice is to go see and taste for yourself, and a wise word of warning – book as soon as possible! STREET ART: Salt River Art Tour One of the oldest areas in the Mother City has undergone a vibrant makeover to become an exciting suburb representative of the cultural diversity in the neighborhood. Salt River was recently host to the first International Public Art Festival in early 2017, welcoming over forty local and international street artists to manifest their imaginations on buildings in the area. The festival stimulated the beginning of a new art experience through which visitors are led on tours of the artistry by local residents with a wealth of knowledge on both the history of Salt River, as well as the new murals. 