Marking the first nationwide stage-show tour for Peppa and friends, Peppa Pig Live in South Africa will open in Johannesburg at Emperor’s Palace on March 29 until April 2, 2018. The show will then visit Cape Town’s International Convention Centre from April 6 to 8 before heading to The Playhouse Company, Durban, from April 20-22. Mzansi slams 'Kani to star alongside Beyoncé' headline #TheLionKing The second leg takes place in June/July with stopovers at the Port Elizabeth Opera House from June 22-24 followed by Pretoria and Bloemfontein. Peppa Pig Live in South Africa is an action-packed stage show based on the award-winning television series (broadcast on e.tv and DStv). It is especially designed to give young fans an unforgettable, first live-theatre experience. A musical production featuring a dozen familiar songs, with an interactive sing-a-long, will have fans laughing, cheering and dancing - just like Peppa. “Peppa Pig is one of the most loved characters in South Africa,” said Chad Findlay, the show’s creative director. “This show - with incredible, life-sized puppets and beautifully-costumed characters - brings Peppa Pig to life in a whole new way.” Ami Dieckman, the head of International Licensing at Entertainment One Family, said: “We’re so excited for local fans to experience Peppa Pig Live in South Africa. We can’t wait to bring Peppa and all her friends to SA. Fans around the country will be dancing, singing and, of course, jumping in muddy puddles.” Peppa Pig is taking over the world. From the Peppa Pig World theme park in England to becoming the number one television show for kids aged 2-5, the brand’s core values of family, friends, imagination and kindness have helped earn Peppa legions of fans among parents and children alike. Peppa’s previous live shows have taken 
her around the world - from breaking 
records in London’s West End to sell-out tours across the US, Europe, Australia and New Zealand.  *  Tickets priced from R199 are available from Computicket. Discounted family packages are available. A limited number of VIP meet and greet packages are available for those wanting to meet Peppa after the show. IOL