A thin-looking Paul Evans, 49, made his first appearance at the Bellville Magistrate's Court on Wednesday, where he shocked everyone by admitting he had confessed to the crimes to police. Evans first told the court that he wished to appoint a Legal Aid lawyer, and then dropped a bombshell, saying there was another crime scene, at an address in Eden Road, Walmer Estate. It was not revealed what crimes had been committed at this address. Read: Bodies of mom and baby found in black bag Man held after bodies of girlfriend and child found Evans is facing a charge of double murder following the killings of Delft mom Shafieka Petersen, 38, and her toddler Mishka, whose bodies were found hidden and wrapped in blankets at their rented one-room home. The State has indicated they will be opposing bail. Evans also informed the court that Shafieka and Mishka lived at the crime scene in Delft. When asked whether he understood that there was a confession, he said yes, he was aware. On Thursday, 23 November, the landlord at Tupelo Court, N2 Gateway, found the badly  decomposed body of little Mishka hidden inside a kitchen cupboard. Two days later, cops were called to the same address, where the landlord had found
Shafieka’s maggot-ridden body hidden inside a plastic tub, wrapped in blankets. Evans, who wore a grey T-shirt and jeans, whispered to his lawyer that he had no warrants, but that he had been sentenced to 25 years, a life sentence. It was not revealed what he was sentenced for. The matter was postponed to January 11 for further investigation and a bail application. The Daily Voice went to the Walmer Estate property, where we found friends of Evans, who was also a tenant there. They revealed Evans was a tik addict who had lived in a separate entrance at the back of the house for two years. The homeowners are family of his, and two months ago Evans moved out, to go and live with his girlfriend in Delft. Days before his arrest on Monday, he had asked his friends to take him to a drug rehab centre. “He said he needed help and he didn’t say anything else, of course,” says a shocked friend. “We heard about all of this (the murders) when the police called, asking where he was. An address was given and he was arrested at that location. “We are shocked. Why would he do this? He was on drugs and he had a sentence when he was a juvenile. Why would he say this was a crime scene?” The landlord refused to 
comment. Daily Voice