Ezra Miller has said Zack Snyder was creating a "lighter" and "comedic" 'Justice League' movie before stepping away and being replaced by 'Avengers' helmer Joss Whedon. The 25-year-old actor stars as Barry Allen and his alter-ego The Flash in the upcoming DC Extended Universe movie - which was kicked off by Snyder with 'Man of Steel' back in 2013 - but Snyder was forced to step away after his daughter Autumn passed away in March. READ: Henry Cavill - Justice League isn't light Snyder was replaced by Whedon - who helmed the first two 'Avengers' movies - and Miller revealed Snyder was doing an "almost Whedony thing" before the filmmaker took over. A post shared by Ezra Miller (@imezramiller) on Nov 3, 2017 at 12:46pm PDT Speaking to Fox5DC.com, Miller said: "I definitely think it's a realisation of a cohesive vision that comes, you know, mainly from Zack, and comes from, you know, the cumulative process of the building of the DCEU. excuse the nipples @interviewmag A post shared by Ezra Miller (@imezramiller) on Nov 3, 2017 at 12:45pm PDT "And I definitely, I feel something that reflects majorly what Zack showed me in early comic frames in a lot of the movie. "What's funny is that I think that Zack was doing a much lighter, more comedic, almost more Whedony thing, and then Joss stepped on and was fulfilling Zack's vision. @interviewmag A post shared by Ezra Miller (@imezramiller) on Nov 3, 2017 at 12:46pm PDT "It's an incredible instance of two artists in collaboration, and honouring each other's work." 'Justice League' follows Batman (Ben Affleck) who, along with Wonder Woman (Gal Gadot), put a team together to stand against a newly awakened enemy. The team includes The Flash (Miller), Aquaman (Jason Momoa) and Cyborg (Ray Fisher), but despite the team of heroes assembling it might be too late to save the planet. Although Miller has dubbed 'Justice League' "lighter" than previous DCEU movies - including 'Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice' - his co-star Henry Cavill, who stars as Superman in the franchise, said calling it "light" would be an "injustice". He said previously: "The tone of the film - I'm not going to say it is light, because that would be doing it an injustice. It has a serious scenario with moments of humour and lightness peppered throughout." Cavill then added that the humour in the movie is similar to "gallows humour", in that the characters are making light of situations that would otherwise be "bad".