CAPE TOWN - JP Duminy has admitted being back among the runs after “quite a lean year” has been very satisfying. The Cape Cobras captain has put aside his troubles in the national team, which included announcing his Proteas Test retirement a few months ago, to spearhead his local team’s revival in the RamSlam T20 Challenge. Duminy is the competition’s second leading run-scorer with 217 runs at an average of 43.50. More importantly, the classy left-hander has struck two half-centuries in consecutive home matches to take the Cobras over the line in Paarl and Newlands. “It has been quite a lean year. So it is always nice to be among the runs again. It always builds your credibility when you are leading from the front in crunch games and that has given my confidence a massive boost in terms of leadership. There is massive credibility about it. Me being a newish captain in this environment it always helps,” Duminy told IOL Sport. It certainly has been a boost to a Cobras team that had collected no points from their opening three matches. They now have eight points from five games leading into the clash against basement dwellers, the Warriors, at Boland Park on Wednesday evening. Another victory in Paarl and a Titans’ win over the Lions – also happening at the Wanderers on Wednesday evening – could see the Cobras suddenly leapfrog a host of their rivals into second place on the log. A further contribution from the skipper would go a long way to achieving that lofty position, but Duminy firmly believes individuals don’t win matches on their own. “Partnerships are very under-rated in this format. If we can focus on that, it gives us a good chance of setting up a good total and ultimately winning the game,” Duminy explained. “There is a lot of pressure that comes with that. It is just about assessing what needs to be done, building a partnership. Fortunately, I have had Hash (Hashim Amla) with me on those occasions, having conversations on the plan going forward, and that has always helped. “Another case in point, that partnership with Vernon (Philander) at the end (of the Knights match), that third last over when Vern took on Ryan McLaren, that won us the game.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Cobras squad Boland Park: JP Duminy (c), Hashim Amla, Ferisco Adams, Temba Bavuma, Rory Kleinveldt, Richard Levi, George Linde, Aviwe Mgijima, Mthiwekhaya Nabe, Dane Paterson, Vernon Philander, Dane Piedt, Kyle Verreynne, Qaasim Adams. IOL Sport   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 