Maya Jama is keen to have a threesome with her boyfriend Stormzy and Beyoncé - but she won't let him do it alone. The 'Shut Up' hitmaker has been dating Maya Jama for two years and, although they're very loved up, the 23-year-old presenter would be willing to spice up their sex life by arranging a wild night in the bedroom with the married megastar. Speaking on her podcast 'When Life Gives You Melons' with 'Love Island' star Montana Brown, Maya said she'd give her grime artist beau a "hall pass" to sleep with the 36-year-old singer - who is married to Jay Z - but only if she can be involved in the action. She said: "I'd be like, 'Yeah, but I've gotta be involved.' You can do it, but we do it together, not on his own. I'm snogging Beyonce too, you are not having fun without me!" Maya's saucy revelation comes just months after Stormzy - whose real name is Michael Omari - revealed he'd like to take their relationship to the next level. The 'Big For Your Boots' hitmaker said: "I'm still so young but I want to propose, it's going to happen and I will do it right. She is so sick, she is the best." Despite their relationship garnering more and more attention from fans as the romance gets stronger, the pair are keen to keep things under wraps as Maya wants to keep the focus on their respective careers rather than their love life. She said recently: "I don't want there to be too much focus on our relationship instead of what I'm doing. We are together, he is doing amazing, and I am just coming up, so obviously there's interest in that. Yes, he is part of me, but I do stuff, too." The pair love to "chill" together when they get time off, but if they want to enjoy a romantic meal together they'll have to go out, as neither of them are good cooks. Asked who is the best chef in the pair, Maya said: "Neither of us! I am learning, though. I've always made sandwiches. I'll make cold food for as long as possible. I blame it on my lack of time. My work is very social, so when I get a chance I just lie on the sofa, chill, eat crisps and watch Netflix."