Qatar Airways announced the launch of its frequent flyer programme partnership with its longstanding codeshare partner, Bangkok Airways. Qatar Airways Privilege Club members can now earn and redeem Qmiles on all flights operated by Bangkok Airways. Bangkok Airways FlyerBonus members can also earn and redeem FlyerBonus points on eligible Qatar Airways flights. Both programmes require members to provide their membership card upon reservation or check-in. Bangkok Airways Vice President Fleet and Network Management, Mr. Jirapon Hirunrat, said: “We are pleased to add Qatar Airways as another partner for our FlyerBonus members to earn and redeem miles. Enhancing reciprocal reward benefits for our FlyerBonus members will enable us to deliver a seamless experience when flying domestically and internationally across the combined networks of Bangkok Airways and Qatar Airways. We believe that this partnership will bring significant benefits to passengers of both Airlines.” Qatar Airways Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. Ehab Amin, said: “This reciprocal relationship between Privilege Club and FlyerBonus is a natural extension of the highly productive relationship that we have enjoyed with Bangkok Airways since our codeshare partnership began in May 2013. We are delighted to be able to extend the range of benefits available to our Privilege Club members, through our relationship with this trusted partner.” Qatar Airways will be also adding many more exciting destinations to its network in 2017 and 2018, including Canberra, Australia; St. Petersburg, Russia and Cardiff, UK, to name just a few. The national carrier of the State of Qatar is one of the fastest-growing airlines operating one of the youngest fleets in the world. Now celebrating its twentieth year of operations, Qatar Airways has a modern fleet of more than 200 aircraft flying to business and leisure destinations across six continents. To meet increased demand for popular Thailand destinations from holiday-makers, Qatar Airways will be launching direct flights to Chiang Mai and Pattaya on 12 December 2017 and 28 January 2018 respectively. The airline already serves Thailand with multiple daily flights from Doha to Bangkok and Phuket, with daily flighs to Krabi commencing 1 December. 