Barbra Streisand has announced a new concert album and a once-off Netflix show in time for the festive period. The 75-year-old singer and actress will take fans behind-the-scenes of the forthcoming compilation, which was filmed on the last stop of the iconic superstar's 13-city 2016 tour, and is comprised of a career-crowning array of legendary songs, with a one-off special Netflix show entitled 'Barbra: The Music...The Mem'ries...the Magic!', which will air on November 22. Fans can either purchase a single disc, 19-song album of memorable concert highlights or Deluxe two-disc set featuring the entire concert performance. Streisand also gives an inside look of 2016's 'Encore: Movie Partners Sing Broadway', her 35th studio album. Streisand was joined on the record by a host of actors, such as Jamie Foxx, Hugh Jackman, Alec Baldwin and Daisy Ridley, and previously admitted it was a joy to recreate so many great songs from musicals. She said: "I love getting performances out of actors and telling a story. I love Broadway, why not act and sing?" Despite enjoying a career on screen and stage that has spanned six decades and earned her two Academy Awards, 10 Grammys and five Emmys among many other accolades, Streisand doesn't think of herself as a huge star. In actual fact, the 'Funny Girl' actress finds many aspects of fame very unappealing. She explained previously: "There's part of me that just doesn't know who I am. I remember once there was a woman staring at me as I was was waiting for an elevator and kept thinking, 'Why is she staring at me?' Then I realised, 'Oh, I'm whatshername.' I don't understand stardom, I never will and I didn't expect it to be like it was. It's like when you're a child and you want attention and you want to be loved and that's all well and good. But then you get that fame and what comes with it is not so pleasant. I'm only interested in the work - that's what I've realised about myself." The track-listings for both editions are as follows: STANDARD CD PACKAGE 1. People Overture (Entrance) 2. The Way We Were 3. Everything 4. Being At War With Each Other 5. No More Tears (Enough Is Enough) 6. Evergreen 7. You Don't Bring Me Flowers 8. Being Alive 9. Papa, Can You Hear Me? 10. Pure Imagination 11. Who Can I Turn To (When Nobody Needs Me) with Anthony Newley 12. Losing My Mind 13. Isn't This Better 14. How Lucky Can You Get 15. Don't Rain On My Parade 16. People 17. Climb Ev'ry Mountain with Jamie Foxx 18. Happy Days Are Here Again 19. I Didn't Know What Time It Was TRACK LISTING DELUXE CD PACKAGE DISC 1: ACT I 1. People Overture (Entrance) 2. The Way We Were 3. Introductory Remarks 4. Everything 5. Being At War With Each Other 6. No More Tears (Enough Is Enough) 7. Evergreen 8. You Don't Bring Me Flowers 9. Being Alive 10. Directing Movies 11. Papa, Can You Hear Me? DISC 2: ACT II 1. Pure Imagination 2. Making Encore (with Seth MacFarlane, Alec Baldwin, Chris Pine, Jamie Foxx, Antonio Banderas, Anne Hathaway, Hugh Jackman, Patrick Wilson, Melissa McCarthy, Daisy Ridley) 3. Who Can I Turn To (When Nobody Needs Me) with Anthony Newley 4. Losing My Mind 5. Isn't This Better 6. How Lucky Can You Get 7. Don't Rain On My Parade 8. People 9. Climb Ev'ry Mountain with Jamie Foxx 10. Happy Days Are Here Again 11. Jingle Bells? 12. With One More Look At You 13. I Didn't Know What Time It Was BONUS TRACKS 14. By The Way 15. Children Will Listen 16. Everything Must Change