Summer is here and so is the season for bikinis and beach days, in light of this  Alexandara Botez - Director of Slimatone Designed for Women has given us the break down of the 6 best foods to get rid of that stubborn belly fat. Brown Rice Eating three or more servings of whole grains a day will help reduce your stomach fat by at least 10 percent!  Keep in mind that this won’t work if you are also eating refined grains like white rice, bread, pasta etc.  You can't chase your cup of brown rice with three pieces of white-bread toast. Look for products that say "100 percent whole wheat" or "100 percent whole grain" on the packaging, not "multigrain" or simply "whole wheat," as those often contain some refined sources. Collard Greens and Broccoli Collard greens and broccoli are packed with calcium. Calcium helps your body use estrogen more effectively, and estrogen is linked to less fat in your abdomen. Second, high-calcium diets may lower production of cortisol, the stress hormone that's linked to belly fat. This means your body is less likely to store fat in your stomach area when calcium is added to your diet. Aside from the obvious sources like milk and yogurt, foods like tofu, kale and sardines are also high in calcium. Salmon Salmon is made of polyunsaturated fats.  Unlike saturated fats, polyunsaturated fats don't pack on pounds around your middle. (Remember, the more muscle you have, the more calories you burn at rest. Another way to fight belly fat!) Saturated fats seem to turn on genes that tell your body to store fat in your stomach area, polyunsaturated fats switch on genes in the same area that actually reduce fat storage. Olive or Canola Oil Monounsaturated fats will not only help our bodies lose belly fat, but is beneficial to helping blood pressure too. Bell Peppers Bell Peppers have a wide variety of nutrients, thanks to the many colors they come in.  It's not clear why these deeply hued veggies may contribute to less belly fat (they're also high in fiber, which may play a role), but more reason to eat your vegetables isn't a bad thing. Up your intake of any vegetables with green, orange or yellow coloring, like Brussels sprouts, carrots, sweet potatoes and squash. Lentils For every additional 10 grams of soluble fiber (which legumes like lentils have a lot of) ladies eat per day, they gain 3.7 percent less stomach fat. Throw in some moderate exercise into your routine and keep off twice as much belly fat by breaking a sweat. (Adapted from press release)