Cindy Crawford applies five skincare products to her body every morning and evening, and she even carries out neck exercises to keep her skin looking flawless. The 51-year-old supermodel boasts enviably flawless complexion, and she has revealed the secret to her glowing skin is that she applies "three to five" cosmetic items to her skin twice a day. Speaking to Harper's Bazaar Online, the brunette beauty said: "For my skin, it really is three-to-five products in the morning and about the same at night. I love using a retinol cream at night for cell turnover. I also love putting in a hair treatment before bed so my hair gets a chance to rejuvenate as well. I love the jasmine hair mask from Lush and the rose oil from Ouai. "The Youth Activating Melon Serum, one of the newest in the Meaningful Beauty collection, contains melon leaf stem cells, and is my favourite way to supercharge my skincare regimen. Every day, rain or shine, I finish up with the Meaningful Beauty Environmental Protecting Moisturiser, which has SPF 30 and wears perfectly alone or under make-up. Dab on a bit of eye cream and some Crème de la Mer lip balm, and I'm ready for anything." And the style icon has revealed she regularly exfoliates because she is a "big fan" of dry brushing. She continued: "I use the Meaningful Beauty Triple Exfoliating Treatment about three times a week before I shower, which is a great way to get all the dead skin off, and then I wash my face. While my skin is still a bit damp, I use a serum. "I'm a big fan of dry brushing. My favourite brush is from Elemis, and I try to make the time to do that at least once a week before I shower. Then I use Neutrogena body oil after I shower but before I towel off." Cindy - who has 16-year-old daughter Kaia and 18-year-old Presley with her husband Rande Gerber - has revealed she also carries out specific exercises for her neck area, which she learned over 30 years ago. She said: "I also do exercises for my neck. I learned them from a yoga book when I was in my 20s, and try to do them a couple of times a week. Lately I've discovered slip silk pillowcases for sleeping. They keep my hair from getting frizzy at night and I definitely have less wrinkle lines from my pillow when I wake up."