Controversial 'Idols SA' Season 13 runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba has shared another statement, but this time it came from a fan. Ndaba, has made headline after headline since the musical competition's finale show on 19 November. First, he failed to attend the press conference after Cape Town's Paxton Fielies won the title. It later emerged that Ndaba was receiving counselling to help him cope with the loss. Pictures of the alleged victim's bruised face and broken tooth went viral on social media as her friends posted that Ndaba was a “wanted man”. On Sunday, however, things really went south for the would-be star after news broke that he allegedly assaulted a woman in a Johannesburg flat over the weekend. Ndaba released a statement on Tuesday explaining that he has returned to Johannesburg and is cooperating with police. He also asked his fans to "not attack the complainant on social media" and for everyone to "continue taking a stand against violence on women and children". He also took the opportunity to punt his single as well as that of his fellow 'Idols SA' contestants. Hours later, Ndaba shared a photo of a motivational letter which he allegedly received from a seven-year-old. The author of note encouraged Ndaba to pray and to "ask God to break the curse and the spirit of death over your family". He was also encourage to dedicate his music career to God if he wanted success and to break the "cycle of poverty" in his family. In the accompanying caption Ndaba wrote:"Earlier today at the shops a 7 year old walked towards me and handed me a hand written note and walked away...I cried all the way as I was driving back home. Can't stop reading it. Love you lots Yaya and your sister Bahle. Good night Mzansi.(sic) Earlier today at the shops a 7 year old walked towards me and handed me a hand written note and walked away.I cried all the way as I was driving back home. Can't stop reading it. Love you lots Yaya and your sister Bahle. Good night Mzansi. A post shared by Mthokozisi Ndaba (@teammthokozisi) on Nov 28, 2017 at 10:26am PST Sergeant Mduduzi Zondo, the police spokesperson at the Hillbrow Police Station in Joburg, has confirmed that case of assault had been opened and police were investigating.