Harvey Weinstein's wife Georgina Chapman is pushing for a divorce after splitting from him last month in response to the sexual harassment allegations against him. The 41-year-old fashion designer revealed last month she was leaving the disgraced producer after several women came forward to accuse him of sexual harassment, but it has now been revealed she isn't content with being estranged from the star, and is now pursuing a termination of their marriage. A source said: "Georgina is doing okay. She continues to focus on her family and work. She doesn't want to be married to Harvey. She wants a divorce. It's just not anything that she is rushing." The Marchesa designer - who has daughter India, seven, and son Dashiell, four, with Weinstein - is channelling all her energy into protecting her brood from the growing scandal, and sources insist the "private" beauty won't be giving "any kind of interviews". The insider added to People magazine: "She is a great mom and very protective her kids. She wants to stay low-key. She has no plans to do any kind of interview. That's not her style. She is very private." Last month, Weinstein, 65, said he was "profoundly devastated" by Georgina's decision to end their relationship, and expressed his hope for a reconciliation in the future. He said: "I am profoundly devastated. I have lost my wife and kids, whom I love more than anything else. "I fully support her decision. I didn't stand in Georgina's way when we discussed a separation, I encouraged her to do what was in her heart. I know she has to do what is best for the children, for herself and her business, she employs 130 people. I don't want her or my children to be hurt any more than they already have. I truly love Georgina, and I hope one day we can reconcile, although right now I don't know if that could possibly happen." Georgina - who has been married to Weinstein for 10 years - previously claimed in a statement that she finds her husband's alleged actions "unforgivable", and admitted her "priority" is looking after her children. She said: "My heart breaks for all the women who have suffered tremendous pain because of these unforgivable actions. I have chosen to leave my husband. "Caring for my young children is my first priority and I ask the media for privacy at this time." In the wake of the scandal, Weinstein - who has denied many of the allegations against him - has been fired from his position as co-chairman of The Weinstein Company, while he has also been slammed by big names in Hollywood, including Jennifer Lawrence, Meryl Streep, Kate Winslet, George Clooney, Angelina Jolie, and Dame Judi Dench.