Laurence Fishburne has filed for divorce from his wife Gina Torres. The 'Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice' star announced he'd split from the 48-year-old actress two months ago - despite the pair going their separate ways over a year ago - and they have now set the ball rolling for the legal termination of their marriage. According to TMZ.com, the estranged couple have spent the past 12 months working with their lawyers trying to figure out how to split their assets amicably. Laurence Fishburne, Gina Torres send shock waves over split Gina was married to Laurence for 14 years and has 10-year-old Delilah with him, but she was forced to confirm that she and the 56-year-old actor had gone their separate ways after she set tongues wagging in early September when she was spotted smooching another man, believed to be entrepreneur Kevin Wright. She said: "With heavy hearts, Laurence and I quietly separated and began the dissolution of our marriage in the early fall of last year. There are no bad guys here. Only a love story with a different ending than either one of us had expected.   "Happily, however, our family remains intact and we will continue to raise our daughter together with love and joy and awe. As well as raise each other up with respect and love and the continued understanding that we're in this together, if not side by side." And, although her family was baffled by her new man, her friends reportedly believe she's opted for someone completely different from her soon-to-be ex-husband. A source said previously: "I think when you've been married a long time and you become single, you look for someone that has what your ex was missing. I think she finds in Kevin when she didn't find in [Laurence Fishburne]. "He's the opposite of a Hollywood guy - he's just cowboy-type, 'I'm going to go ride my horse,' type of guy. Kevin wouldn't date someone who was in a happy marriage. His understanding was that they [Torres and Fishburne] were separated and co-parenting." Bang Showbiz