For families who do not want to break the bank this summer, there are lovely spots to chill out. Here are the five places to visit: False Bay Nature Reserve (Rondevlei section)
Where: : Perth Rd and  Fishermens Walk, Zeekoei Vlei, Cape Town,
Price: R12 adults, R6 (children above the age of 3 to 17 and pensioners)
Contact: 021 706 2404 Known as the only  nature reserve in Cape Town with hippos, this spot is ideal for families who want to experience nature and some of the city’s  stunning views, with their loved ones. The nature reserve makes for a perfect day visit.  Visitors can bird watch and try to spot the 230 bird species on offer, or search for one of 10 hippos in the park. Picnic spots are available. Imhoff Farm 
Where:Kommetjie Rd, Imhoff's Gift, Cape Town
Contact: 021 783 4545 or email info@imhofffarm.co.za For those family members who want to take a camel ride, but cannot afford to visit Egypt, then Imhoff Farm is the place to visit. This historical Cape farmstead offers something for everyone in your family. Some of the activities include horseback riding, a wine show and sushi restaurant. It is the perfect spot to celebrate those special moments. Company Gardens Where: 19 Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town Central, Cape TownPrice: Free entry. Contact: 021 426-1357 No visit to Cape Town is complete without a stroll through the Company Gardens. Known as the oldest garden in Cape Town, Company Gardens has beautiful spots to enjoy the magnificent beauty of the Mother City. It has a rose garden, Japanese garden, fish pond and aviary. It is close to places like the South African Museum, the Planetarium and the South African Art Gallery- all fun hang out spots for the family. Take a hike Where: Table Mountain or Lion’s Head
Price: Free A hike in summer may be daunting, but a great way to spend time with the family. The best part? It does not cost a cent. All you need is to pack is some snacks and water for the journey. Many travellers choose to do a trek up Table Mountain, which saves them the cost of the cable car.  Another popular hiking spot is Lion’s Head. The Old Biscuit Mill Address: 375 Albert Rd, Woodstock, Cape Town, 7915
Price: Free entry. 
Phone: 021 447 8194 The Old Biscuit Mill is a vibrant little village in the heart of Woodstock. The Mill is home to day and night markets, dynamic office space, a range of workshops and designer stores, delicious farm stalls, decadent restaurants as well as a great line-up of festivals and productions. This hangout will keep family members wandering for hours. 