DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs will play at King Zwelithini Stadium in uMlazi for the second time in their history in the Premier Soccer League era when they lock horns with AmaZulu on November 22. It has been six years since Chiefs played at the King Zwelithini Stadium, which has a capacity of 15 000. They played against the National First Division outfit Nathi Lions in a Nedbank Cup clash in 2011. Usuthu and Lamontville Golden Arrows usually play against Chiefs at Moses Mabhida Stadium, Kings Park or Chatsworth Stadium. Usuthu team manager Qedi Dlamini explained why they chose Moses Mabhida Stadium for this category A match. “The tickets are on sale as we speak. They are R40 for adults and R20 for kids. We will sell 15 000 tickets. We ask AmaZulu fans to wear green colours. “Moses Mabhida Stadium is Kaizer Chiefs’ alternative venue for AmaZulu. If you take our game to Mabhida, it will be more like Kaizer Chiefs’ home ground. They have an agreement with the stadium,” Dlamini elaborated. Usuthu recently played Chiefs at Moses Mabhida Stadium in the last 16 of the Telkom Knockout and Amakhosi thumped them 3-0. Chiefs have an agreement with Mabhida to play three of their home matches at the iconic 2010 Fifa World Cup venue. “Secondly, we want to build the club from scratch. That’s why we’ve decided to take our game to townships. If we are having problems at King Zwelithini Stadium, then we will play at Princess Magogo Stadium in KwaMashu. “We want to bring our fans while we are here. Our goal is to grow our home support. Moses Mabhida is very expensive, especially in big games like this one. You end up not seeing the huge difference in terms of profit. “If you are playing at uMlazi, the costs are low, but you make good returns. Maybe you make half of what you were going to get at Moses Mabhida. “Mabhida is expensive because there are suites, food and the stadium rental. We don’t have any agreement with Mabhida, which means we have to pay the stadium rental. The stadium rental is too expensive. It’s not like King Zwelithini Stadium, which has a small rental fee,” Dlamini said. PSL acting chief executive Mato Madlala doesn’t see any problems with AmaZulu playing in uMlazi. “If Bidvest Wits can play Chiefs at Bidvest Wits Stadium, then what can prevent AmaZulu from hosting Chiefs at King Zwelithini Stadium? “Let us allow AmaZulu to play where they want to play. All they need to do is meet the safety and security requirements. “They need to provide sufficient security and make sure that they won’t be any traffic at the venue. The national police have to be satisfied that relevant safety and security measures will be in order. “PSL doesn’t categorise matches anymore, but it is SAPS who do that,” Madlala explained. @Minenhlecr7  IOL Sport Like IOL Sport on Facebook 