Kylie Jenner is set to launch Kylie Cosmetics pop up in "seven" Topshop stores this November, which will only be open for one month. The 20-year-old television personality - who opened her beauty empire in January last year - has taken to social media to announce she will be temporarily stocking her signature Lip Kits and other beauty products in the Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Miami, New York, Chicago, Houston and Atlanta branches of the popular store for one month only. The entrepreneur shared a clip of her giving all the details for her latest venture on her Instagram account. I'm so excited to announce my @kyliecosmetics pop-up shops at @topshop!! My holiday pop-ups will open at 7 Topshop locations across the country, Los Angeles, NYC, Miami, Chicago, Houston, Las Vegas and Atlanta this November. Stay tuned for more! A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Nov 2, 2017 at 9:46am PDT  She captioned the video: "I'm so excited to announce my @kyliecosmetics pop-up shops at @topshop!! My holiday pop-ups will open at 7 Topshop locations across the country, Los Angeles, NYC, Miami, Chicago, Houston, Las Vegas and Atlanta this November. Stay tuned for more! (sic)." And speaking in the footage, which was also posted on Kylie Cosmetics photo-sharing site, she said: "Im so excited to announce my Kylie Cosmetics pop-ups at Topshop. This November I'll be opening Kylie Cosmetic pop ups at seven Topshop locations. Los Angeles, Las Vegas, New York, Chicago, Miami, Houston and Atlanta." And Topshop have revealed the highly coveted Kylie Cosmetics make-up products will be available to buy from November 20 to December 20. They shared the same post, which was captioned: "Hey USA 🇺🇸 You'll need an alarm clock for this one... the @KylieCosmetics pop-up is coming to selected Topshop US stores Nov 20th - Dec 20th !! #KyliexTopshop @kyliecosmetics @kyliejenner (sic)." The 'Life of Kylie' star recently teased she was working on a new project for her beauty brand as she shared a map of America with her Kylie Cosmetics logo dotted on different areas. Something special is coming for the holidays. #staytuned A post shared by Kylie Cosmetics (@kyliecosmetics) on Nov 1, 2017 at 10:42am PDT  The upload read: "Something special is coming for the holidays.... @kyliecosmetics #staytuned (sic)."  .