Oscar Llewellyn Petersen, 37, was dug up at his home in St Simon Street in Lavender Hill on Monday. Rubble and an old broken couch were on top of the 1.7m deep hole. Police were called to the crime scene after one of the cousins allegedly confessed the murder to a friend. According to the top police source, Petersen’s two cousins, both aged 29, were taken in for questioning. The victim’s girlfriend, Caroline Breda, 33, says Petersen knew someone wanted him dead. “We dated for six years after he got out of jail for huisbraak (house robbery) and he was chilled. Yes, he smoked his buttons (Mandrax), but wasn’t a problem. In the last few weeks I told him he needed to get his life sorted as Chevian (our daughter) was growing up,” says Caroline. “Last week he told me his family wants to kill him because they’re busy poisoning him,” she says, bursting into tears. “On Friday he promised he was getting his life together. He told me he would sort Chevian out for Christmas. “He sent his CVs everywhere and was certain he would be contacted about a job this week. “After his body was dug up on Monday, a company called him for an interview,” she sobs. “The hole was so deep the eight officers needed help to dig. His face was disfigured and his head swollen. An officer said one could hardly recognise him. “Jy kan wie of wat wees, but niemand deserve om so uit te gaan nie.” (It does not matter who or what you are, no one deserves to die like that.) Caroline says on Friday, just after 10.30pm, she heard loud bangs coming from next door, where Petersen lived, and thought people were smashing their house. “I wanted to see what the commotion was, but I was scared. Five to 10 minutes later it was quiet. I asked my brother-in-law to go check and Oscar’s cousins stopped him. “After 11pm, I heard them throwing water and scrubbing and the other neighbour shouted they should finish, and I heard Oscar’s mother reply, ‘ons is besig om die vullis te begrawe’ (We burying the rubbish.).” According to a neighbour, Petersen’s cousin allegedly confessed to a friend, and when police arrived, he calmly stated that he killed his cousin, and showed them where the body was buried. The Daily Voice went to Petersen’s family on Tuesday but no one was home. Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, says a post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death. “Two persons have been detained for questioning,” Van Wyk confirmed. Daily Voice