Russells on the Port Restaurant and Guesthouse recently launched their new wing of nine suites, offering a tranquil stay in an idyllic location, a mere ninety minutes’ scenic drive from Cape Town for group tours, families and couples. This is the place to take that break and enjoy the beautiful Berg River Basin. Russells on the Port boasts nine new luxurious en-suite bedrooms, increasing their guesthouse to fifteen double rooms which sleeps thirty guests plus additional sleeper sofas in some of the suites to accommodate children or extra adults. The en-suite bathrooms have enormous showers and a few have the addition of a bath.
 
The four-star accommodation is inclusive of breakfast, wifi, satellite channels, flat screen TV, air-conditioning (in most rooms), private balcony (river view rooms), swimming pool, free private parking, 24-hour CCTV, free amenities, refrigerator, coffee station and BBQ area. The honeymoon suite includes breakfast, champagne on arrival, own patio and entrance. Some of the rooms have interleading doors for families, as well as private, direct access to the pool. 
 
The new addition is a twenty-meter stroll from the main building and the 90 seater restaurant which offers an upmarket dining experience. The excellent menu is seasonal and has fresh contemporary dishes with global influences. Flavours are big and natural focusing on the essence of the main ingredient with a fusion of local and international flavours and cuisines. For those guests looking for something more casual, there is the gourmet wood-fired pizzas and flatbreads to go with a glass of ice cold draught beer and a sun-filled, magnificent view over the Marina teeming with twittering birds that inhabit the wetlands. The well-stocked gin bar will be fully operational by mid-December and will fulfil the connoisseur's dream.
 
Russell Foster, owner of Russells on the Port is an entrepreneur who hails from the North East of England. Over a decade ago he ventured to the West Coast of South Africa where he planned to retire after falling for the West Coast in a big way. He became a respected member of the Port Owen community by initiating a soup kitchen and becoming involved with animal welfare and various other organisations.
 
Foster’s initial idea was to open a restaurant on his doorstep where he could enjoy first-rate food and wine with supreme service. Little did he realise how popular the restaurant would become with visitors coming from Langebaan, Cape Town, Elands Bay and Hermanus amongst others.
 
Foster decided to take the plunge and expand to a successful guesthouse, and has now added nine additional luxury suites. There are some big plans for the future of Russells on the Port, including charters up the Berg River and around the dazzling St Helena Bay.