A headline in a Chinese newspaper took a blunt swipe at US president Donald Trump for pulling out of the Paris Agreement on climate change. It s the planet, stupid, not China s global leadership, read the headline in China Daily, the country s biggest English newspaper. A Scud missile fired, not only at Trump s shortsighted decision, but at environmentalists concerned more about geopolitics than the effects of climate change. The opinion piece tackled Trump s sweeping move which markedly dampened global efforts to curb global warming. Trump told a Washington press conference: We don t want other countries and other leaders to laugh at us anymore. The oped writer criticised various sectors including environmentalists who were of the opinion the accord was about geopolitics and Trump s move was tantamount to China ceding global leadership. He argued it was a pity that when confronted with the serious issue of combating climate change some people chose to view it through a geopolitical lens. Frustrating, especially, since China faces enormous environmental challenges. The dean of the School of Environment and Natural Resources at Renmin University, Zhong Ma, warned that China s development and growth as the world s second largest economy had come at the expense the country s environment. By 2010 China topped the list of air polluters. A study by the US-based Health Effects Institute found that air pollution caused more than 4.2million early deaths worldwide in 2015, making it the fifth highest cause of death, with about 2.2million deaths in China and India. Though China has launched a campaign to improve air quality, authorities have been reluctant to draw direct links between air pollution and mortality or diseases. The health ministry says it has no data justifying these links. Ma said the Chinese government had put regulations in place aimed at drastically reducing the use of fossil fuel by 50% by 2020. The heavy use of coal was the main culprit for high emissions as was a staggering 60 million vehicles on the country s roads. He said the government faced a tough dilemma and its growth goals, the environment, resources and ecosystems were unsustainable. He said the country s environment from ecosystems, water, soil, fauna and flora felt the far-reaching effects of pollution. The government was investing heavily in green energy such as hydropower, solar and wind. But he believed biomass, plant material and animal waste should also be further explored. World leaders need to realise that there is much more at stake than politics and commit to renewable energy and work towards efforts to ameliorate the effects of climate change. Al Gore, former US vice president and Nobel Peace Prize winner, warned in one of his speeches the survival of the United States of America as we know it is at risk. And even more... the future of human civilization is at stake. Trump needs to wise-up and rethink his actions. Mother nature may well have the last laugh. Peters is the live editor of Weekend Argus. She is on a 10-month scholarship with the China Africa Press Centre. Instagram: mels_chinese_takeout