Kim Kardashian West is "terrified" of raising her children around social media. The 36-year-old television personality has four-year-old daughter North and 18-month-old son Saint with her husband Kanye West, and has admitted she has concerns about her brood "growing up" around social media. She said: "I'm terrified. I think that social media is one of the most important tools if you're building a brand ... and just to share your life, I think it's really fun. But I didn't grow up in a world of social media." READ: Kim Kardashian West thanks 'good dad' Kanye West    Besties A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Jun 16, 2017 at 4:47pm PDT   And in order to make sure her children don't develop social media habits too quickly, the 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' star has already implemented a "no phones" rule at home. She added: "My kids are a little too young to want it now, but I think it's so important. It's about boundaries. At home, I don't have my phone. Dinner time, breakfast time, there's no phone." READ: Kim Kardashian - Caitlyn discredits mom Kim also isn't a fan of the idea of "falling asleep" with a phone nearby. Speaking during an appearance on 'The View' on Tuesday (20.06.17), Kim said: "Kids should not be falling asleep with their cell phones ... With everything, whether it's junk food or anything, you have to have boundaries."    My baby girl turned 4 years old today! She's my light & my everything!!! I love you to the moon & back North A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Jun 15, 2017 at 11:33pm PDT   Although Kim doesn't want her children using social media too regularly, she did take to her own Instagram account recently to wish her husband Kanye a happy Father's Day (18.06.17). Alongside a picture of Kanye lying in bed with his little girl snuggled on his chest, she wrote: "Happy Father's Day! Thank you for being such a good dad to our babies!" And the brunette beauty also posted a picture of Kanye and little Saint gazing at one another on board a private jet. Alongside a heart emoji, she simply captioned the picture: "Happy Father's Day (sic)"