Hotel residences are becoming increasingly popular among corporate and leisure travellers alike.The new Radisson Blu Hotel and Residence is located in one of Cape Town’s iconic buildings in the centre of Cape Town's law and financial district. Previously known as Safmarine House, on the corner of of Riebeck and Long Street, it is now a five-star hotel with 215 rooms, all with spectacular views of the harbour, mountain or city and 166 sectional title apartments and penthouses. I arrived at the hotel late afternoon on a weekday and found it to be an oasis of calmness from the bustle of the CBD outside.
I began my evening with a cocktail in The Sea Street Bar and Lounge, which is located on the ground floor. There was only one other guest in the lounge, who was furiously typing away on his laptop, so essentially I had the lounge to myself. After a busy day at work I enjoyed the peace and tranquility of the space while watching passers by through the large street-facing windows. Although I did not eat at the Sea Street Bar and Lounge,  the pub-style menu is perfect for a quick coffee or light lunch. There are plans to introduce a vendor style stall on the pavement outside offering chef’s daily specials to the passing trade.
 
The Sea Street Bar and Lounge is a perfect after work drinks spot for those commuters wanting to miss the late afternoon city traffic. 
 
The Stratus Room is the hotels main dining area and offers an international menu which includes chef specialties and seasonal options for lunch and dinner. The decor is that of a  contemporary café with floor to ceiling glass windows on the street side of the building, giving diners sweeping views across the city and the pool terrace. I opted for a seared tuna steak coated in sesame seeds, served with greens and wasabi mash. The tuna was more pan fried and slightly overcooked (definitely not seared), however the portion was extremely generous and I am sure that many a hungry guest would appreciate the larger serving size.
 
I ended my evening at The Ghibli Bar and Pool Terrace - which is definitely a competitor for the hottest new spot in the city. 
The Ghibli Bar opens up onto the Pool Terrace - a relaxed yet exclusive-feeling space, with shades of blue and white decor, echoing the hues of the city skyline. It is the place to head for to enjoy cocktails, spritzers or a light meal whilst relaxing next to the pool on a warm summer's evening. 
 
The hotel is currently the highest residential building in the Mother City and has won several awards for its architectural design. 
I stayed in a standard room with views across the city and mountain and found it to be spacious and comfortable. Facilities include a gym, executive club lounge and the outdoor rooftop swimming pool.
The Radisson Blu Hotel and Residence is definitely a cool, hip place to stay if you are looking for a city break or are visiting Cape Town on business and want to be located in the center of the CBD, within walking distance of most of the main attractions. Facilities: 3 Restaurants
Bar, pool bar and lobby bar
Lounges
Executive club lounge
Meeting and conference rooms
Outside terrace
Swimming pool
Gym
Terrace
Underground parking. For more information go to their website: https://www.radissonblu.com/en/hotel-capetown-residence