25-year-old graphic designer Jade Cupido is a fashionista who is also passionate about uplifting and empowering women.
Cupido’s bold red and white fur coat caught our attention on Instagram Her look was inspired by the 70’s fashion which is making a big comeback on international runways.  “This look was inspired by my love for vintage fashion. Personally I have an obsession with fur coats (think it's safer to use the term faux fur, to avoid animal right issues) and I love pleated clothing” says Cupido 
“Both the white and red faux fur coat and navy pleated skirt are vintage finds. I actually got it from my aunt” says Cupido about her vintage treasures.
 
We chat to Cupido about her chic vintage style. 
How would you describe your style? 
I don’t have a particular style – it all depends on my mood and of course the weather! One day I will look elegant and the next day I will be rocking the athleisure trend.  I love vintage pieces because of the great quality and uniqueness, from a young age I have been "borrowing" from my mom and aunt's wardrobe. 
 
Who is your style icon?
My style icon is Rihanna, she's a complete sartorial risk taker and she makes anything look good. She won a style icon award and being the creative director for Puma she's a major influence in the fashion industry. I can totally relate to her because I'm daring when it comes to fashion. What influences your style?
I follow fashion weeks around the world and I wear clothing that I like not what the fashion critics in the media dictate. I'm a great bargain shopper and I hardly buy anything at full price. I time the sales and save up my money and buy in bulk at the end of the season.
 What are your top tips for winter dressing?
My number one rule is that dress for comfort. 
Don't pack all your summer clothes away, re-purpose your summer wardrobe. I pair my summer dresses with polo-necks, leggings or skinny jeans. 
Every woman should own a pair of good quality boots, whether it's ankle or knee-length. 
Jerseys and coats are great investment pieces (they are super warm and stylish), but stick to neutral colours like black, navy or tan will go with almost everything.
I do believe that when it comes to styling, it’s all about the staples in your wardrobe. 
The rule I live by? Every woman should own a pair of butt-hugging jeans, that she can rely on for any occasion. What other interest keep you motivated and inspired?
Myself and my partner Ondela Mlandu have started a movement called @authoric_sa. This movement is  aimed at the empowerment of women. We want women to know their value and to know that every woman is beautiful, beauty is not limited to models in magazines. 
We aim to start a women's running club, where we go for a run on Saturday mornings and spend time with the ladies and have conversations and share various life stories. 
We all about reaching out and we recently just did a pamper day at an old age home, where we painted ladies nails and had encouraging conversations with them and shared life stories. Another one of our reach out projects is the #authoricwinterdrive whereby we are currently collecting clothes and non perishable foods for the less fortunate. All donations will be donated to the Kensington Haven night shelter.
 
Check out more of Jade’s looks on her Instagram page @fashionstylecrave.Photographer Bryan Banda: Instagram @iambryanbanda.