South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) officials accompanied by police went to her business place and confiscated 26 cards and cash. The loan shark, an owner of a supermarket in the area, is believed to be providing Sassa beneficiaries with loans and, at the end of the month, withdrawing the money she is owed, and giving the beneficiaries the remainder. Project co-ordinator for the Rural and Farm Workers Development Organisation, Billy Claasen, said after hearing of the woman's scam, his organisation referred the matter to Sassa and the Social Development Department for investigation. Claasen said an undisclosed amount of cash, which was also found in her possession, was also confiscated. “She already withdrew the money from the ATM and also took money and gave the people their change, and that is unacceptable, that is illegal, and we want the police and Sassa to do their job and this lady must be prosecuted,” said Claasen. One of the beneficiaries, Connie Bex, said her ID and Sassa card were confiscated by the woman. “It’s wrong for her to keep our cards but we don’t question her because if I don’t agree she declines me the loan." “She is taking advantage of the people because she knows we are desperate." “She stands next to the machine and withdraws her share of the money and gives people the remainder. For some to avoid going home penniless they take another loan the moment she is done with the transaction. This means you only keep your card for a minute and give it back to her,” said Bex. Sassa’s provincial senior communications and marketing manager Shivani Wahab said her office was aware of the loan shark. “Our compliance unit is in touch with the security agencies regarding this matter. We are not in a position to to talk about it as the SAPS is currently handling the matter,” said Wahab. Sassa regional executive manager Bandile Maqetuka said: “We received information from our informants that there is a shop owner who is keeping a big number of Sassa payment cards." “We contacted the police and they are dealing with the matter." “It is unlawful to keep those cards because it is the property of the state. Only beneficiaries are authorised by the state to be in possession of those cards.” Cape Times