But Trump has a point: the climate deal signed by some 194 countries at the end of 2015, the first of its kind in the move to tackle climate change, was pretty ordinary. While world leaders lauded the deal, many environmentalists close to the cause described it as “weak” and “lacking ambition”. Basically, the non-binding deal only really urged countries to do more. Indeed, most climate change activists, fighting against the use of fossil fuels and the like, have argued that the Paris deal was a sham in the first place. It made the best hand in a poor pack of cards. Of course, Trump’s decision to pull out of the climate deal has nothing to do with the environment, and more about Trump wanting to exert his tyranny over the globe. He may have cited the deal as treacherous to American interests, but given that the goals were voluntary, and put forward by the US government itself, it was nothing the Trump administration was actually compelled to carry out. Make no mistake: when India, China, or a wide set of European countries now confirm their commitment to the climate deal, they commit themselves “to acting on their own time”, ie. of doing nothing if they don’t want to. The deal is a liberal dream; the perfect mix of industrialisation, green-capitalism and white guilt. Nations get to continue as they were, but now, with acknowledgement. Nothing has to really change. As argued elsewhere, Trump’s obstinance, crass and pithy manners towards the climate, and just about anything, has allowed more traditional presidents and prime ministers like the Justin Trudeaus and the Narendra Modis of the world to spew unchecked rhetoric of caring for the environment, while pushing on with a disastrous industrialisation agenda. In many ways, Trump has only dismantled the sham. Leaders with an ounce of charisma have managed to capitalise on his comparative idiocy, forcing our hand in believing our leaders are not that bad after all. But our leaders, precisely those on the African continent, are really just as bad, after all. If our continent’s leaders had an ounce of self-respect, they would be expressing their absolute damnation at the US withdrawal from the Paris accord, or using this moment as an opportunity to speak of the dangerous consequences of not taking climate change seriously. South Africa’s Department of Environmental Affairs described “its profound regret over the decision of the US to withdraw from the Paris Agreement (and called) on the US to reconsider its position and to recommit to the multilateral process”. But in March, the South African government signalled the green light to the fracking of shale gas in the Karoo, which is certainly harmful to the environment. Our disapproval of the US is as perfunctory as the climate accord itself. The African continent contributes the least to global warming, but it is the continent that stands most to lose from climate change. Scientists say that by the end of the century, it is likely that land temperatures on the continent will rise faster than the global average; rainfall will decrease substantially in parts of north and southern Africa; ocean ecosystems will suffer damage; chances of flooding in Ethiopia will increase dramatically. As urban dwellers, we might be okay in the interim; the price of maize, rice, vegetables will rise, but so long as they are available in Shoprite or Woolies, we will “adjust”. For those reliant on crops, it means hunger even death. Climate change is not just about failed crops or inconvenient higher prices. In 2009, between 30000-50000 children died on the continent due to malnutrition. In fact, so many of the wars and conflicts, be they in South Sudan or Somalia or Central African Republic are over resources, and particularly, over land. If you are living in Sandton in Johannesburg, or Westlands in Nairobi, it is easy to forget that the continent remains rural; that entire wars start over infringement over land by goats and sheep searching for grazing land. We often fail to recognise that millions of people have been forced to vacate their land to move to so-called greener pastures, as a result of poor or extreme climatic conditions over the past decade. While we sleep, foreign governments, be they from the Gulf, Israel, India or China, are predicting a potential food crisis in the decades to come and splashing gifts upon our leaders in exchange for land on the continent. Developing agriculture is paramount to pulling people out of poverty on the continent. Yet, our leaders remain so willing to sell it all to the highest bidder. To quote an oft-repeated line from Kumi Naidoo, the former director of Greenpeace: “The struggle has never been about saving the planet. The planet does not need saving. If we warm it up to the point where we cannot exist we’ll be gone, the planet will still be here.” * Essa is a journalist at Al Jazeera. He is also co-founder of The Daily Vox. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.