In Phoenix, an 8-month-old girl and 5-year-old boy died when they were left alone at home with a candle burning. It is believed their mother had an argument with her boyfriend and left their flat. Her boyfriend apparently left the sleeping children to go and find their mother. Tom Nobert, who lives in a building next to the flat, said the couple started arguing at about 10pm on Saturday. He said they argued for some time before the woman left the flat. “Her boyfriend went to look for her and left the house with the candle burning,” he said. Nobert was sleeping when he was woken by the screams of a woman who lived in the same block of flats, for a ladder. He said she screamed for help as the fire crept towards her room where she lived with her 11-year-old son. “Neighbours got a mattress for her so she could jump from the first floor. Her son jumped first and landed safely. She jumped and landed badly, and broke her legs. She was extremely traumatised.” As the fire raged, Nobert learnt about the two children alone in the flat and tried to rescue them, but could not see anything past the thick plumes of smoke. At this point, all the neighbours had come out to try and help. “When the mother came back she was crying uncontrollably. When her boyfriend returned, he lost it. He was head butting and punching the wall." “People could not stop him as he is a big guy,” said Nobert. Ayesha Mohamed, a neighbour, said she was awake at 3am because she was fasting. “My dogs were barking and I went to look outside. I opened the door and saw a huge ball of fire come out of the couple’s home. I screamed for my husband and I called the police,” she said. Mohamed said her husband and some neighbours rushed to try and help. “My husband said the heat from the fire was too intense and he couldn’t get close. This was a very scary experience,” Mohamed said. They had talked to the firemen afterwards and were told that one of the children was found on the bed and the other was by the door. Meanwhile, in Wyebank, three children died when their home in Fannin Road caught alight. Their mother had apparently left them asleep at home while she visited a friend. Two of the children were twins – 6-year-old girls – and the youngest child was a 3-year-old girl. A relative, who did not want to be named, said he battled to ask the mother what had happened because she was inconsolable. “I was in Johannesburg when I heard the news at about 4am from my father, and drove straight to Durban.” His relative’s boyfriend, the children’s father, was also devastated. “He is trying to be strong, but I can see that he is having a difficult time,” the relative said. The funerals, he said, might be held over the weekend. Police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala said: “An inquest and a charge of child neglect are being investigated by the Phoenix and Pinetown SAPS respectively. The causes of the fires are still unknown. Circumstances surrounding the incidents are being investigated.” Daily News