Ford South Africa has issued yet another recall - this time, the carmaker is asking owners of certain early-model Figos and Ikons to have their cars checked. The latest recall has been caused by a “high-
pressure hose leak”. Spokesperson Minesh Bhagaloo said this was a “voluntary safety recall” and that Ikons built between August 9, 2004 and March 24, 2012 as well as Figos built in India between January 13, 2009 and March 24, 2012 were affected. However, owners of diesel-engined models need not worry as the recall, which involves 15 600 vehicles in total, only affects petrol-engined cars. “On your vehicle, the power-assisted steering (PAS) high-pressure hose could split, resulting in a power-steering fluid leak. A power-steering fluid leak could result in fumes being emitted from the engine compartment. It may also be possible for power-steering fluid to come into contact with the vehicle’s exhaust system components, creating potential for smoke and, in extreme cases, fire,” the company said. “Ford is proactively recalling the vehicles to correct the issue and will be contacting customers to advise them of the recall and corrective action,” he said. In January, footage emerged of a Figo ablaze at a MediClinic in Mbombela. This happened days after Ford SA issued a recall of its Kugas - equipped with the 1.6-litre engine and built between December 2012 and February 2014 - due to engine overheating problems. That recall came in the wake of many reports of Kugas catching fire - including one belonging to Reshall Jimmy, who died in the blaze. In March, Ford SA also expanded that recall to include more than 1000 Fiesta STs with 1.6-litre engines - made between September 2012 and December 2014 - for the same reason it had recalled the Kugas. The Figo has also been recalled before - in 2012 - for similar reasons to those for which it is being recalled now. Durban’s Veronica McGregor, who was among those to receive an email, said she was irritated. “We have two Fords and this is the second time we’ve had to take the Figo in,” she said. “I just feel like I’ll never buy another Ford again - not with all these problems.” Bhagaloo said if customers had concerns, they could contact their nearest dealer or Ford Customer Service directly at 0860 011 022 or CRC3@ford.com The Star  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  