When DJ Milkshake isn’t keeping people on their feet on the dance floor, he is walking for charity or reading a book at a park. Known as one of the biggest Hip Hop DJ’s in the country, Milkshake has collaborated with some of the biggest names in the industry. Tomorrow the popular DJ will be playing at one of the biggest marquees at the Vodacom Durban July, the Jack Daniel’s Boomtown Marquee. “I have played at this marquee before so I know what to expect. It is always a great party and this marquee and of course being at the July is amazing. For me it’s all just one big party,”he said. He also said that he was looking forward to keeping people on their feet. “Ladies need to bring an extra pair of comfortable shoes and guys too. I like to put as much energy in my sets as I possibly can and this time it is no different,” he said. The dj has long been regarded as someone who changed the way young South African’s party when he was a part of a group of people that created Pop Bottles, a lifestyle event that is aimed at Hip Hop music lovers. “Pop Bottles has had a major influence and it has been very consistent through the years and of course I am very happy to see it grow across the country. The idea was never for it to be as huge as it is right now, so it’s amazing that it has become such a huge part of the party culture,” he said. Milkshake has teamed up with people like Cassper Nyovest and Da L.E.S, and although he is now a household name, it was never easy. “In the beginning it was hard, there were very few hip-hop DJ’s in the country. It was something that was extremely niche when I started and people did not warm up to it immediately. It was a very small pond but luckily for me, it was not long after I entered the industry that it took off. One of the greatest lessons I have had to learn is that you must never give up on what you believe in, just keep working hard towards making your dreams a reality”. And when he isn't making hits, he is relaxing at home with his family. “I am not a social person at all, I love being at home and just relaxing with my family. I would rather my friends come over to my place and we chill there, I am a complete home body. If I am out though, it’s at the park with my dog, I love the park, I love reading at the park too. I was not really much of a reader until recently. I am currently reading the Business Model Navigator which I am enjoying because at some point I want to work from behind the scenes and develop other DJ’s,” he said. He is currently working on his new EP.