THOHOYANDOU – Black Leopards were unable to turn their superiority into goals at the Thohoyandou Stadium on Saturday and had to settle for a 0-0 draw with Stellenbosch FC in the PSL promotion-relegation playoffs. The result means Stellenbosch, who drew 2-2 with Baroka FC on Wednesday, have two points from two games, with the two Limpopo clubs each having a point from one match played. Based on the balance of play at a full-house in Thohoyandou, Lidoda Duvha will have felt they should have come away with all three points against a Cape side which did not show much attacking ambition throughout the 90 minutes. Stellenbosch did, however, have a good early chance, but an unmarked Junaid Sait sent his sixth-minute header wide of the target. Leopards, with Siphelele Ntshangase looking a constant threat, had their first sight on goal two minutes later when Mwape Musonda burst through, but the Zambian smashed his shot wide. Despite not enjoying much of the ball, Stellenbosch did manage to create another opening on goal, but Mame Niang’s 25th-minute effort was hit tamely straight at Leopards keeper Rotshidzwa Muleka. At the other end, visiting keeper Washington Arubi did superbly to keep Musonda out on 31 minutes, before Lebogang Mabotja missed another opportunity for a dominant Lidoda Duvha just before the break. Ntshangase, a player linked with a move to a big PSL club in the past, was relishing the stage, and some superb work from him on the hour mark saw him setting up Ivan Mahangwahaya with a clever chip, only for the striker to hit the woodwork. The Cape outfit appeared happy to sit back and absorb the pressure, while the home side became increasingly frustrated at the lack of clear-cut chances. Ntshangase came agonisingly close 10 minutes from time when his free kick whistled inches wide in what proved to be the last clear chance on a frustrating afternoon for Black Leopards. Stellenbosch will miss the influential Diego Brown for their next game after he received a second yellow card a couple of minutes from time.   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 