Remember the supermodel who famously transformed England’s iconic London’s Tower Bridge into a skyhigh catwalk? Five years and fifteen remarkable fashion productions later, Jessica Minh Anh is set to impress with the first ever fashion phenomenon atop the modern engineering masterpiece, Hoover Dam,on 26 June 2017. With an exceptional vision, Jessica Minh Anh will premiere the most exquisite haute couture and creative fashion collections from different continents on the one-hundred-metre curved runway. No stranger to mind-blowing productions at places such as the Eiffel Tower, One World Trade Center, and Grand Canyon Skywalk, the exotic beauty will make full use of advanced technology to film and broadcast J Summer Fashion Show 2017 from every angle. READ:Top designers showcase at the #LeKapLifestyleFair  On choosing Hoover Dam as the official venue of J Summer Fashion Show 2017, Jessica Minh Anh said “I’m always drawn to spectacular mega structures, especially those that benefit mankind. Hoover Dam controls floods while providing water and electricity to millions of homes. It is truly a monument of human accomplishment against the rules of nature. I cannot think of a better venue to celebrate the best of modern architecture, culture, fashion, and technology.”  This is the second time Jessica Minh Anh has combined renewal energy and fashion after her acclaimed solar powered catwalk in Spain. Always pushing the visual envelope, Jessica’s upcoming extravaganza will include a cinematic backdrop featuring the world's largest man-made reservoir, Lake Mead, and the majestic Black Canyon.  Jessica Minh Anh has exclusively selected returning designers including Peruvian artist Ani Alvarez Calderon, Turkish haute couturier Gulnur Gunes, Pakistan award-winning designer Syeda Amera, New York designer Cristina Sabatini, as well as new faces such as Italian talent Kine Dione, Malaysian pride  Emmanuel Haute Couture, Hong Kong brand Kaprice, Brazilian representative Patricia Nascimento, Peru’s young talent Christian Zerrá, and Texas-based fashion house Aplomo. American companies including Joy Mangano, AVP Nationwide Productions, Saks Fifth Avenue Las Vegas, The Mirror Mirror salon, Arrow Stage Lines, Fred's Bakery, Alexis Park All Suite Resort, Hoover Dam Lodge Hotel & Casino, Body in Mind Pilates Studio, JB Pro Graphics, Icelandic company Icelandic Glacial, and Dutch brand Haas-Jordan will also contribute to the show. READ:Model Adwoa Aboah reveals reasons why she shaved her hair  “Jessica Minh Anh represents a fearless generation of multitalented leaders who turn grand ideas into reality.” said Marco Goncalvez, Operation Director, Compagnie des Bateaux Mouches, “Having witnessed her problem solving brilliance while facing natural disasters such as a storm at Gemasolar or flood on the Seine River, I have no doubt her summer show will be yet another sensational experience.”  With a positive message attached to an outstanding set up, J Summer Fashion Show 2017 will not only promote design excellence, but also the tremendous energy of the young generation that matches the hydroelectric power. Let the countdown begin.