 #1: At the moment, it is definitely the street food scene. There are a lot of new businesses that are popping up that are doing street food in the most interesting way. One in particular is in Braamfontein called Kota Kings. It’s more like a bunny chow. You find it a lot in townships. It’s a sandwich bread with potato chips, sausages and atchar. These guys have taken that but added a bit of a modern twist to it with their interesting veggies. If what we grew up eating. It is what most black South Africans will identity fiwth.  #2: People have become more conscious of what they eat. These days, they are leaning towards healthier meals. That’s another thing directing how, in SA, the food space is taking shape.  #3: With drinks, I’ve found that they are now shifting; alcohol is being paired with food. That’s part of a bigger campaign where the brands have been pulling people like myself to come in and help create menus infused with their brand. They are recognising food as a complement.  #4: Patisseries – there’s an on ongoing change in this space. Before it was all about red velvet and colour cakes. Now, when you go to food markets, its also about beautiful pastries. And we love our macaroons at the moment. I noticed they are making them in sandwiches and in different ways that go all the way to fine dining. It’s all about the whole gastronomy of it!  #5: Craft beer, absolutely. It goes with the offering of sweet food. I love me some craft beer. There is a strawberry flavour (can’t remember the brand) that I love.   MY KOTA PIE Makes Five Pies 500g potatoes 50g butter 50ml olive oil 3 sprigs rosemary 100g mango achaar 300g sundried tomatoes 250ml red wine 50g cheddar cheese 2 tsp sugar Salt and pepper to taste 500g Russian sausages 550g puff pastry 1 egg for brushing  METHOD Cut 400g potatoes into 1cm x 1cm cubes. Cook in simmering water until tender. Drain and dry potatoes. Melt butter in a sauté pan. Add a spoon of oil and 2 rosemary sprigs. Add potatoes and increase heat. Fry potatoes until golden brown. Drain and set aside to cool. Drain achaar in a sieve. Finely chop sundried tomatoes. Place in a pan with 2 tsp. of olive oil on medium heat. Cook until paste consistency. Add red wine and chopped rosemary. Reduce to a chunky sauce. Add sugar, salt and pepper. Stir and set aside. Finely grate Cheddar. Skin and cut Russian sausages into large blocks. Fry in oil. Roll out puff pastry. Spray and cook mini-loaf moulds. Line with puff pastry. Layer bottom of pie with potatoes (NOT the chips). Add cheddar to Russian sausages and layer on top of potatoes. Layer with finely grated mature cheddar cheese. Place tomato sauce on top and seal pie with a layer of puff pastry. Brush the pie with egg wash. With remaining puff pastry cut out the letters “KOTA” and egg wash one side of each letter. Stick lettering on the pie lid and egg-wash the surface of the pie. Bake at 180°C until golden brown.  MAIZE PIZZA WITH BOEREWORS 1 litre (4 cups) water 1 chicken stock
cube 500ml (2 cups)
maize meal 50g butter
50g (½ cup) grated
Parmesan or
cheddar cheese TOPPING 250g boerewors
sausage, or Chorizo
or frankfutters 150g Sliced button
mushrooms 1 Sliced red onion
200g chopped cherry
tomatoes, halved 100g (1 cup) grated
cheddar cheese
fresh basil leaves  METHOD Heat oven to 190°C.
Grease a large
baking sheet.
In a large
saucepan, bring
water and chicken
stock cube to the
boil.
Slowly pour in
the maize meal,
a little at a time,
stirring constantly
until completely
absorbed.
Lower heat, and
cook stirring for
20 minutes or until
cooked through.
Mixture must be
soft and spreadable.
Remove from
heat, stir in
Parmesan cheese,
spread pap onto
baking sheet, to 5cm
thickness.
Brush your pap
base with olive oil.
Arrange topping
ingredients, except
basil, on pap base.
Bake for 20
minutes or until the
sausage is browned
and the sides of the
maize meal crust
crisp.
Garnish with
basil leaves and cut
into wedges,serve
warm.