Cape Town – Rape Crisis Cape Town Trust say they have a vision of a South Africa in which women are safe in their communities and where the criminal justice system supports and empowers rape survivors and acts as a deterrent to rapists. “The core of the problem of violence and crime in South Africa is a culture of violence, which needs to be seen and understood in the context of our extremely violent past,” says the organisation’s director, Kathleen Dey.“A culture of violence means: the majority of children and young people in our country grow up in an environment in which violence is part and parcel of daily life.”Dey says: “The desired social contract is one where all people will be safe and live in freedom because they all have the same amount of rights and take the same amount of responsibility and if they do not the state imposes duties on all and protects the rights of all." This clearly is not happening in South Africa at this time, she says. "Instead of calling people to behave with decency towards one another and showing them the steps towards building a culture of consent it is important first to ensure that the state takes its own duties seriously." Part of the organisation's strategy is to improve services to rape survivors both prior to entering and within the criminal justice system in order to minimise secondary victimisation and increase the effectiveness of trials so that reporting of rape increases and conviction rates improve. “That is why the Rape Survivors’ Justice Campaign is calling on the government to continue to roll out specialist sexual offences courts across South Africa as promised and not to dilute this model by amending laws to allow for hybrid courts or adopting a model that has fewer services and facilities to support rape survivors when they testify in court.”  READ MORE: #DontLookAway . not just for 16 days Founded by Anne Mayne, a survivor of both domestic violence and gang rape, Rape Crisis was established in 1976 and is the oldest organisation in South Africa supporting recovery and seeking justice for survivors.They are contacted by an average of 300 callers and 400 new face-to-face clients every month. “There are few resources available to women who have been raped and Rape Crisis Cape Town is one organisation that provides comprehensive services right the way through to the end of the rape trial and beyond,” Dey says.  What to do if someone raped you: 1. GET TO A SAFE PLACE Do this as soon as possible.2. TELL SOMEONE It may be very difficult for you to tell someone what has happened to you, but it’s important because this person can support your story and back you up in court.3. DO NOT WASH YOURSELF: There might be hair, blood or semen on your body or clothes that can be used as evidence of the rape.4. IF YOU ARE INJURED Go straight to a hospital, community health centre or doctor.5. REPORT THE RAPE If you want to report the rape, go to the police station nearest to where the attack took place as soon as you can. Ask a friend or family member to go with you for support. Keep the name of the police officer in charge of your case and your case number.6. IF YOU’RE AFRAID If you fear retribution or intimidation by the rapist/s, make sure the police are aware of this and ask that the rapist/s be not allowed out on bail.7. FORENSIC EXAMINATION A doctor will examine every part of your body to find and collect samples of hair, blood or semen. This is part of the police investigation to gather medical evidence of the crime.8. GET SUPPORT Ask for pamphlets or booklets on rape and the number of a local counselling service to give you further support and advice about the police matter, court case and any other effects of the rape.9. GET TREATMENT Whether or not you want to lay a charge, make sure that within 72 hours you take:* The Morning After Pill (MAP) to prevent pregnancy;* An HIV test and antiretroviral treatment to prevent HIV infection;* Antibiotics to prevent a Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI).Even if you don’t report the rape, you still have the right to free treatment to prevent HIV within 72 hours of the rape.How you can help Rape Crisis* Make a monthly donation or leave money to Rape Crisis in your will.* Take part in or organise your own fundraising events for us.* Complete a counselling or facilitator course run by Rape Crisis.* Don't Look Away.You can contact Rape Crisis on www.rapecrisis.org.za. Physical address: 23 Trill Road, Observatory, tel: 021 447 1467 or their 24 hr crisis line: 021 4479762.  IOL