I have never stayed at the Oyster Box Hotel, a five star venue, but I frequent the joint so much it feels like my second home. While many of us will never be able to fork out thousands of rands for a top of the range of suite, some five star establishments allows for day visitors to indulge in food, activities or to just take in the sites.  If you are travelling to KZN and want to feel the opulence and art of fine living then a day at the Oyster Box is recommended. Not only is it closely situated to the lighthouse, it is a walk away from the beach. There is a range of activities for everyone, some budget friendly. Here is how you can spend a day at one of KZN’s top hotels: Have a breakfast of oysters and champagne For those of you who love the ocean and a fancy a good meal in the morning then breakfast at the Ocean Terrace, overlooking the Indian Ocean, is something that you should try.  There is a range of items available, including caviar and mussels if you feeling to splurge. If you are not a morning person, their restaurants have an impeccable selection of cuisine to match any palette.  I particularly enjoyed the curry buffet by in house chef Kevin Joseph. Have a drink at the Lighthouse Bar There is nothing better than ending a long day with a drink in hand, alcoholic or nonalcoholic, as you watch the sunset with the Umhlanga lighthouse in the distance. The Lighthouse bar serves an amazing selection of beverages that sets a tone for a great night. The red and white theme mirrors the lighthouse and a perfect backdrop for some memorable snaps with your loved ones.  High tea Another must try is their high tea in the Palm Court. Their delicious sweet and savoury goods are to die for, and their selection of teas are a must try.  High Tea is a lengthy, leisurely affair with live piano music a welcome addition to the occasion. On my visit, I remember tucking into a salmon and cream cheese sandwiches, berry pannacotta, eclairs and Seasonal Fruit Tartlets with a Custard Base. I suggest you bring an appetite as there is so much try.  Spa time  Can I say that a visit to the Oyster Box spa was my best yet. I felt like a king from the time I arrived to the time I left. I had their B Harmonised 60 minute massage. The treatment is designed to remove stress from the back, feet and scalp. Not only is it one of their signature spa treatments, it also incorporates meditation and breathing. In between treatments one can have a Durban Hammam experience, a traditional oriental heat experience that has been carefully designed with heating, cooling therapies to aid relaxation.  The Health Bar has homemade healthy snacks and fresh fruit juices while the tranquility lounge has herbal teas and books to keep you energised. clinton.moodley@inl.co.za