“Eish, Bob, another stinking hot night. Doesn’t the sun ever set in this place?” Munching on some of his favourite dates, Bob couldn’t quite understand his friend’s irritation. “What’s your problem, Jacob? Why do you complain so much? You once lived in a matchbox house in the township and now you’re the proud owner of this magnificent mansion with 10 bedrooms, 13 bathrooms, a double grand staircase and parking for 10 cars. Why, even Harry O didn’t have it that good.” But Jacob was not entirely convinced. “Well, Bob, let’s put it this way. It’s not that I’m ungrateful to my generous benefactors from Saxonwold for buying me this R330 million retirement home. I love it, I’ve now got more wealth than I can count and a lifestyle to die for. But...” Bob interrupts his friend in mid-sentence. “Oh, I’m so tired of your persistent moaning, Jacob. You and I are born freedom fighters, right? We did our time in the bush and were single-minded about our respective causes. I won freedom for Zimbabwe just as you helped liberate South Africa. “Now that we have beaten those racists and colonialists and won freedom for our people, it’s our turn to eat. We did not join the struggle to be poor.” Jacob half agreed with his friend. “Look, it’s not as if I don’t enjoy this opportunity of retirement in Dubai. But there are other things in life I crave for.” Bob was losing his patience by now. “What other things are you looking for when you have everything here?” he asked. “Well, Bob. I’m a simple home boy at heart. I love the little pleasures in life, like running around the rolling hills of Nkandla, eating samp and beans. “I’ve got rhythm in me, Bob. It’s in my blood. I want my old life back. I miss those days in Parliament too.” By now, Bob was fed up. “You’re being far too sentimental, my friend. The fact is you are rich today because you are a committed ANC leader and implemented your party’s policy.” Jacob’s face broke out into a smile. “Well, you have a point there, Bob.” dennis.pather@telkomsa.net * The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Sunday Independent