The islands that speckle Mozambique’s coastline are a welcome vision of paradise for every guest. Equally as breath-taking as these stunning ocean views are the extraordinary sights that lie just below the surface. Seamlessly blending in with the natural beauty that surrounds them, Anantara Bazaruto Island Resort and Anantara Medjumbe Island Resort are as popular with marine adventurers as they are with holiday-makers and honeymooners.   Falling within the protective borders of the Bazaruto and Quirimbas National Parks, both island resorts offer extraordinary oceanic adventures in pristine, unspoilt waters. From vibrant coral reefs teeming with tropical fish, to some of the world’s largest populations of dolphins, whales, sharks, turtles and dugong, it is these remarkable ecosystems and the surrounding crystal-clear waters that makes Anantara Bazaruto and Anantara Medjumbe premier diving destinations for both first-timers and seasoned professionals alike.   Anantara Bazaruto Island Resort: A tropical jungle beneath the ocean  In addition to unparalleled luxury and world-renowned hospitality, Anantara Bazaruto Island Resort offers PADI scuba diving courses from Open Water to Dive Master, along with a range of extraordinary dive site excursions, including its famous Manta Reef and Rainbow Runner Reef sites.   Requiring two dives to complete, Manta Reef is vast and flat, boasting kaleidoscopic gardens of sea anemones and coral, attracting large numbers of bright clownfish, as well as green turtles and populations of graceful manta rays. Alternatively, the Rainbow Runner Reef is renowned for its forests of green-tree corals and thrilling opportunities to see Zambezi sharks in their natural habitat.   And when the underwater adventures of the day have been wrapped up, Anantara Bazaruto offers innumerable ways to recharge and relax.  Soothe tired muscles with a sensual and restorative massage or beauty treatment at the award-winning Anantara Spa. Recharge after a long day’s diving with a sumptuous meal at one of three world-class restaurants. Or add a dash of romance to your stay with a bespoke private dining experience for two, complete with a private butler, to make your Dining by Design cuisine truly memorable.     Anantara Medjumbe Island Resort: twelve flavours, one for every type of diver  Only a short boat ride from the incomparable luxury of Anantara Medjumbe Island Resort lies a diver’s dream – a selection of twelve unique, dive sites featuring untouched marine ecosystems and some of the world’s most beautiful coral reefs.   Anantara Medjumbe Island Resort offers PADI scuba diving courses, with adventures for all levels of experience and qualifications, highlights include Neptune’s Nursery, a 15 metre deep flat reef with delicate coral, and a rich hunting ground for game fish and blue spotted stingrays.   Intermediate divers might prefer to tackle Sambi Sambi’s 40 metre sloping wall, frequented by elusive leopard sharks, as well as green and Hawksbill turtles. And for truly seasoned divers, there can be no greater thrill than peering over the 800 metre sheer drop at the Edge of Reason. Opportunities for exploring these exquisite sites abound, and intrepid explorers can even set out in search of new sites, and may even be awarded the chance to name it themselves.   No matter how much (or how little) time you spend in the water, Anantara Medjumbe offers a wide variety of day-trips, sporting activities and leisure options to suit the tastes of any guest. From bird and whale watching to water-sports and impossibly romantic sunset Dhow cruises, guests to Medjumbe Island are as spoilt for choice on land as they are at sea.  Visit bazaruto.anantara.com or medjumbe.anantara.com to experience these undersea adventures or contactreservations.africa@minor.com/ +27 010 003 8977 for direct booking