Cape Town - A newly wed couple has been shot and killed just hours after celebrating their two-month wedding anniversary. The groom Ashley Sauls was also celebrating his 30th birthday on Tuesday. In a sad twist, Ashley’s twin brother, Stan, was murdered eight years ago. The pair had stepped out in the middle of the night and were found dead a few roads away in Parkwood Avenue, Parkwood. Family members described how Ashley tried to shield his wife Alicia, 27, with his body. He was found lying on top of her, holding her. Ashley was shot in the head, and Alicia in the stomach. Within hours, alert cops arrested four suspects for the double murder. The suspects, aged between 25 and 30, will appear in court soon, police say, adding that a 9mm Norinco Star firearm was also confiscated. Family say Alicia was a recovering drug addict and was going to start a nursing course soon, while Ashley was looking for work. The couple tied the knot on 26 April and had no children. Just hours before they were killed, Alicia gave her hubby a card, a pair of socks and a photo frame as birthday gifts. She wrote in the card: “To my darling husband Ashley, Happy birthday my love, may you be blessed with many more joyful, loving and prosperous years to come. With all my love, from your wife.” The young couple had been living with Alicia’s mom Elizabeth Hendricks, 45, in Walmer Walk, Parkwood. Elizabeth says the pair went out just after 2am on Wednesday morning. “Alicia came into my room and said: ‘Mommy, I am coming now’,” she explains. “I was half asleep. I don’t know where they were off to. “A few minutes later, I heard gunshots and I called to Alicia’s cellphone and there was no answer. Then a resident came to my home to bring me the news, and I just knew.” Alicia’s grandmother Jasmine Jaffer, 61, showed the card and gift Alicia gave Ashley for his birthday. “She bought him a photo frame with the intention of placing a picture of them in there, but she never got the chance,” says a heartbroken Jasmine looking at their wedding photographs. Constable Carol Strauss confirms four people were arrested for the murders. “A double murder case was opened for investigation. Sterling investigation led to the arrest of four suspects aged between 25 and 30 and the recovery of a 9mm Norinco Star firearm,” she says. “Anyone with any information about this fatal shooting incident is requested to contact the investigating officer Detective Sergeant Adiel Noordien 078 353 2922 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111.” Daily Voice