After issuing an ultimatum to the DA to remove Helen Zille as premier or risk a breakdown of the DA-EFF coalition, the EFF seemed to backtrack on this threat in its response to the DA’s announcement regarding Zille's fate. DA leader Mmusi Maimane on Tuesday announced that Zille will step down from all her roles in the party which include; Federal Executive, Federal Council and Provincial Council. She however, remains Western Cape premier. Zille also apologised unreservedly to South Africans who were offended by her colonialism tweets. It was reported last week that Malema had issued an ultimatum to the official opposition to remove Zille as premier or risk losing the metros of Tshwane and Joburg, which the DA runs in a coalition with the EFF. “They must be warned. You will remain with the Western Cape with Johannesburg and Tshwane gone. We don’t want to associate with a party that protects colonialism and apartheid. “We are (almost there with regard) to withdrawing our votes in those municipalities if you don’t suspend Helen Zille as premier. We are not going to allow that nonsense to continue,” said Malema at a media briefing in Joburg. The EFF, in a statement, seemed to backtrack on this stance, simply saying it noted Zille's apology. Malema wants Zille fired or EFF will quit coalition "The EFF notes the apology by Helen Zille following her racist tweet about colonization; her apology is accompanied by acceptance of the imposed sanction being permanent; that she will step down from all party positions. "We also note that the DA has not extended this sanction to the key position of premiership." While the party blasted Zille as an "untransformed racist", it remained mum on whether or not it would follow through with its earlier threats. Instead, the EFF said:  "SA continues to be in a tale of two evils. As a country, we are in a difficult position of having to choose between kleptocracy and colonialists, gangsters and racists. This will continue to be the reality even in 2019 unless we rise above towards a choice of a radical and progressive left movement that will crush both evils."  The EFF went on to stress that it was important to note that it was not in any alliance or coalition with the DA, had any relationship with the party or owed them anything. “We do not owe them anything in the same way we do not owe anything to the ANC gangsters. Our faith lies in a future without both in government, which can happen in 2019.” IOL