They have composed music for more than 60 Bollywood movies and have performed in more than 1 000 concerts worldwide. This awesome twosome have sung, produced and composed music in Hindi, Tamil, Telegu and Marathi movies. Dadlani, a former VJ, is also the vocalist of Mumbai-based electronic band Pentagram. Ravjiani, a former contestant of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa in 1997, is a trained classical singer. They joined forces in 1997, with the movie Betaabi and have been dominating the Bollywood music industry over the past two decades. Dadlani and Ravjiani have been reality TV show judges on shows such as Indian Idol Junior, Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Lil Champs as well as the hit TV shows The Stage and Dil Hai Hindustani. Shekhar received critical acclaim for his role in the movie Neerja opposite Sonam Kapoor. The duo are no strangers to the silver screen, having appeared in the movies Om Shanti Om, Tees Maar Khan and Happy New Year. They have produced and directed music in Bollywood movies such as Salaam Namaste, Ta Ra Rum Pum, Golmaal, Cash, Om Shanti Om, Tashan, Dostana, Bhootnath, De Taali, I Hate Luv Storys, Anjaana Anjaani, Break Ke Baad, Tees Maar Khan, Bhudda Hoga Tere Baap, Ra One, The Dirty Picture, Student of the Year, Chennai Express, Happy New Year, Fan, Sultan and many more. Both have received several accolades and awards over the years. They have received the best soundtrack award at the annual European awards for Om Shanti Om and Ra One. These amazing performers and singers have also won the IIFA, Big Entertainment, Star Screen, Stardust and Zee Cine awards for best song for Radha on the Dance Floor and Chammak Chalo. Over the past five years in South Africa, Dadlani and Ravjiani’s songs have been voted as the number one and two on the Bollywood year-end countdowns on Hindvani FM and Lotus FM. Music lovers and Bollywood enthusiasts have chosen Radha on the Dance floor (2012), 1234Get on the Dance Floor (2013), Indiawaale (2014), Selfie Re Le Le (2015), Jabra Fan (2016) as their favourite songs. Their other hits include Dhoom Again, Jaane Kyun, Bin Tere, Balam Pichkari and Tumse Hi Tumse, to name but a few. After last year’s blockbuster Sunidhi Chauhan concert, Golden Jewellers will be producing another spectacular event, headlined by these musical geniuses. The concert takes place in Durban on Friday at the ICC and in Johannesburg on July 2 at Emperors Palace.  *  Tickets start from R150 and are available from Computicket outlets nationwide as well as Golden Jewellers stores at Chatsworth Centre and Gateway Theatre of Shopping. Call 071 874 8759 
or 083 781 1082 for more information. IOL