Cape Town - Ronald Bernie Bernickow was a beautiful, simplistic and embracing person, said Lorna Daniels. Bernickow, who was a longtime activist and organiser of Media Workers Association of South Africa (Mwasa) passed away this week.&nbsp; The memorial for Bernickow has been scheduled for Wednesday, July 5, at 7pm, while his funeral is set to take place on Saturday, July 8, at 9:30am.&nbsp; He remained courageous, strong and joyful as a person until his last breathe, said Daniels, his ex-wife.&nbsp; While he remained engaged with the big political picture, he took time to appreciate and show gratitude for all that was good in his life. Nothing and nobody was too small to be appreciated and this made Berni particularly endearing.&nbsp; Berni was an activist to the end. Daniels expressed how Berni lived out the values that would empower and contribute to bettering people's lives.&nbsp; He was always a helper, a teacher and a builder.&nbsp; While we will miss him dearly, the impact he had on our lives will remain with many of us forever. That was the largeness of his character and the measure of his influence on his family, his friends and the many people who came into contact with Berni. Bernickow s son, Remi, added that as they have been talking about the legacy his father left behind, what stood out was how kind he was. He helped raise a lot of the kids and that is one thing we talk about, he helped raise a lot of other people s kids. He always wanted to do good and help people. When asked what one of his fondest memories about his father was, Remi said: Teaching me how to hold my breath underwater when I was four years old. He also added that what stood out for him about his father was how caring he was. When you see someone that caring, it means that there must be good in the world. &nbsp; Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa also paid his tribute to the veteran trade unionist. We have lost a giant who served the workers of our country and the labour movement with humble distinction. Ronald &quot;Berni&quot; Bernickow was also an activist during apartheid when the press was severely crippled. Picture: Supplied.&quot;The historic Nedlac agreement reached by social partners benefited greatly from the facilitation undertaken by Bernie, who brought his vast experience as a seasoned negotiator to bear on this important national task, Ramaphosa said. Bernie will be greatly missed by all those alongside whom he worked tirelessly to build a better South Africa and improve the working and social conditions of South Africa s working class. I offer my sincere condolences to his family, friends and comrades. [email&#160;protected] Cape Argus