Last year, Castle Milk Stout collaborated with Mi Casa’s lead singer and aspiring chef J’Something, who used Africa’s favourite stout to inspire a series of mouth- watering recipes.
 
The partnership has continued and J’Something has been busy in the kitchen creating a new range of delicious dishes – starting with southern fried chicken and harissa dip.
 
“Castle Milk Stout is made with quality dark roasted malt and matured for longer, and  offers a rich and smooth drinking experience that is best paired with rich, flavoursome and hearty meals,” said Langa Khanyile, Castle Milk Stout Marketing Manager for Africa.
 
“I love cooking with Castle Milk Stout because it is so versatile – it can be used in sweet or savoury dishes,” said J’Something. “And because I am a guy that really loves food and cooking, my recipes are easy to recreate at home”.
 
According to J’Something, the stout ingredient gives the wings a pleasant bitter note to elevate the southern fried chicken.
 
It just so happens that the first recipe coincides with National Fried Chicken Day, celebrated on 6 July 2017 in the USA.
 
As the name suggests, Americans observe this day by consuming various styles of fried chicken. So instead of popping into a chicken outlet, why not try this easy recipe at home? RECIPE Difficulty: Very easy
Serves: 4-6
Hands on Time: 30 minutes
Total time: 3 hours (including marinating time)
Oven Temperature: Stove top - a high temperature that is regulated and ready for deep frying. Ingredients 1.5 kg chicken drumsticks and wings 1 ½ cups buttermilk 330 ml Castle Milk Stout 2 teaspoon Harissa paste ¾  cup flour ¼ cup corn-starch 1 ½ cups panko crumbs 1 teaspoon black pepper ½ teaspoon smoked paprika ½ teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 tablespoon brown sugar Vegetable oil for deep frying Harissa dip 1 can (410 g) chickpeas 300ml roasted red pepper sauce 3 Tablespoons olive oil 1 Tablespoon lemon juice 1 clove garlic, finely diced ½ teaspoon ground cumin ½ teaspoon ground coriander ½ teaspoon salt 2 teaspoon Harissa paste 2 Tablespoons Castle Milk Stout  Method Place chicken pieces in a bowl. In a small bowl whisk together the buttermilk, Castle Milk Stout and Harissa paste, pour evenly over the chicken, cover and refrigerate for 2-3 hours to marinade. To make the Harissa dip, combine all ingredients in a food processor and blend for one minute, until smooth and creamy. Set aside. In a medium sized bowl mix together the flour, cornstarch, panko crumbs, black pepper, smoked paprika, garlic powder, chili powder and brown sugar. Remove chicken from fridge and one at a time dredge the chicken pieces in the flour mixture then gently re-dip in the marinade, then recoat with the flour mixture (double coating of the flour mixture will give you crispier chicken), set chicken pieces aside on a baking sheet. Allow the coated chicken to sit at room temperature for 10 to 15 minutes. Add the oil to a large pot until about 20cm deep, heat oil, oil is ready when a pinch of the flour mixture dropped in starts sizzling, don’t let oil get too hot or chicken coating will burn on the outside and be raw on the inside. Working in batches fry the chicken until golden brown and cooked through, about 15 minutes per batch. Remove from oil and drain on paper towelling. Serve warm with Harissa dip.