Knysna – Despite the recent fire that ravaged the town of Knysna this past week, the Knysna municipality said on Friday that the Pick n Pay 2017 Knysna Oyster Festival would go ahead as planned. On Wednesday, a fire raged out of control in Knysna, resulting in the evacuation of approximately 1 000 residents. This fire came on the back of a massive storm that hit Cape Town on Tuesday at around 11pm. The storm saw hundreds displaced, at least eight people dead as well as schools and some universities closed as a result. The Knysna municipality, in a statement, confirmed that despite the recent fire, the popular oyster festival would go ahead as planned. "While the Garden Route town suffered extensive damage in this week’s devastating fires, plans for the Pick n Pay 2017 Knysna Oyster Festival are continuing," the municipality said.  Marketing director for the Momentum Knysna Cycle Tour Andrew Finn said that while the town had taken a big knock, the Knysna Cycle Tour was still on track with planning and organisation. “Once all the fires have been extinguished, we will be able to assess the situation to see whether it is necessary to alter any of our routes and plans, and all entrants will be updated by email,” he said. “We are looking forward to a great event.” Additionally, organiser of The Momentum Knysna Forest Marathon Leon Brown also confirmed that the marathon would go ahead as planned. “We are dedicating the event to all the people who lost everything in the fires and will be focusing on our blanket drive. "We urge people to add to the 2000 blankets which Momentum donates every year and to also donate clothing which will be collected at registration and the race start in the Glebe so that it can be distributed to where it is most needed." The municipality meanwhile, added that while it was assessing the impact of the fires on the local accommodation establishments, it was positive that festival goers will be able to find accommodation in and around the town. The Pick n Pay 2017 Knysna Oyster Festival will run from July 7-16.  * Pick n Pay will gather and deliver any online purchases made on their website in aid of Knysna Fire Relief. Click here for more info. 