On Friday morning local pool players gathered at the scene following the shocking incident, where one man died and three were injured when the gunman opened fire. Local pool player Denley Naidoo was hailed as a hero by his fellow players as they described the shooting the evening before. Naidoo said they were first alerted to trouble when three gunshots rang out from the shop next door. His brother was a victim in the gunfire. “I heard the gunshots and my first thought was for my brother who was in the shop next door. “I ran out of the pool hall and saw the suspect coming out of the shop and closing the door. “I quickly ran back inside. Everyone wanted to hide under the pool table but I told them to split up as we could all be shot in one place. We couldn’t run, we couldn’t hide, we couldn’t get out. “Then the suspect came in, so I stood up and held my hands out. “I didn’t look at his face and moved around so that if he shot me, it wouldn’t be on the side of my body where my heart is. “I told him we were just playing pool and we have no cash. I was thinking of my brother and trying to be strong,” said Naidoo. The gunman turned to another man in the pool hall who, according to the witnesses had been staring at him. The gunman shot him three times before leaving the pool hall. Naidoo’s friend, Deeps Beepath said, “We thought we were going to die, but Denley saved us. “When the guy turned to go, he shot the one of the guys sitting close to him. “Denley told us not to panic, not to be scared. "Everyone said there were a few gunmen, but we only saw one.” Naidoo said: “I just wanted to get to my brother, he is the most important person in my life. “Once the gunman was gone, I ran next door to the shop. "I saw the till assistant was lying on the floor and my brother was lying further back in the shop and had been shot in the stomach.” Naidoo’s brother Davis, 45, was taken to hospital along with three other injured people. He was operated on yesterday morning and his condition is stable. Witnesses said the other victim, who died in hospital later that night, was at the cash till and was one of the owners. This could not be confirmed by the time of going to press. KZN SAPS spokeswoman, Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident, saying: “People were shot while they were at a business premises on Varsity Drive in Sydenham. “Three armed men entered the premises and shot a 35-year-old man who later died in hospital. "Three other victims were also shot and wounded. "An undisclosed amount of cash was taken” Independent on Saturday