Zuma's application is conditional in that it only applies should the court consider, as the DA contends, that his legal challenge of Madonsela's report does not obviate the need to comply with the remedial action. Madonsela ordered that a judicial commission of inquiry be appointed to probe her findings, but Zuma is opposing this on the grounds that her precise instruction that the head of the inquiry be appointed by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng interferes with his presidential power to appoint the judge leading such a probe. The DA has argued that the only way the president could legally not comply with her directive pending the review, would be to apply for a court order staying implementation thereof in the interim. It has also asked the court to order him to comply with her report and allow an inquiry proceed. "President Jacob Zuma has today, 12 June 2017, filed a conditional counter application in the matter between the Democratic Alliance against President of Republic of South Africa and another," his office said. It said that according to Zuma's legal counsel, contrary to the DA's application, he may not comply with Madonsela's findings and remedial action if there was reason to doubt its correctness. His lawyers further advised that should he comply at this point, it would render the court review application academic. "The legal advice obtained by the president is to the effect that he is in law not entitled to just comply with a report of the public protector if there are reasons to doubt its correctness. To do so will amount to a mechanical response; this is irreconcilable with the logic and rights exercisable by a person adversely affected by such a determination. "The President was further advised that the implementation of the remedial action in the current form would render academic the review application in its entirety." However, should the court find that the review application did not automatically stay the need for implementation of Madonsela's report in the interim, he is seeking such a stay. "The president has been advised to bring a conditional application so that the real dispute in the review application receives the full attention of the court and further delays are avoided." The review is set down for hearing in mid-September. In the meanwhile, the DA is lobbying support from other political parties for an ad hoc committee to be appointed in Parliament to probe all allegations of the Gupta family's influence over the president, ministers and public enterprises. Madonsela's report was released in November. She found indications that the family had sought to influence the president's decision-making and had through close ties with, among others, former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe, managed to secure lucrative business deals with the state. Zuma refused to respond to Madonsela's questions when she tried to interview him during the course of her investigation. In recent weeks, leaked emails of Gupta associates have brought to the fore further allegations of extensive collusion between state companies and the family. African News Agency