Johannesburg – The Porsche 911 Turbo S Exclusive Series is special not only because it’s a genuine limited edition (just 500 will be available worldwide) but also because it is the first production car to be trimmed in the Porsche Exclusive custom division at Zuffenhausen, which has now been renamed Porsche Exclusive Manufaktur. Its 3.8-litre biturbo flat six has been tweaked to provide an extra 19kW – up from 427 to 446 at at 6750 revs – and 50Nm, delivering 750Nm from 2250-4000rpm. Claimed acceleration from 0-100km/h is unchanged at 2.9 seconds, as is top speed at 330km/h – but acceleration from 0-200km/h is quoted at 9.6 seconds, compared to 9.9 for the standard Turbo S, which points to an awesome boost in mid-range power. The normally optional Sport Chrono performance package, carbon-ceramic brakes, active suspension management, four-wheel steering and dynamic chassis control are all standard issue. But what makes the Exclusive Series really special is the finish. It comes with special metallic gold paint, and carbon-fibre roof, bonnet and skirts. And by masking off two broad strips on the centre-line of the body before spraying, what you get is dramatic go-fast stripes in genuine carbon weave – not the self-adhesive faux fibre stripes beloved of boy racers but the real thing. The rear end carries the wing from the Turbo Aerokit package, a special rear apron, Exclusive Series badging and a special exhaust system with two dual tailpipes in black-finished stainless steel, and it rolls on 20 inch rims with central locking as standard, finished in gloss black with laser-printed metallic gold design lines, over black brake callipers with the Porsche logo in metallic gold. They’ll finish your Exclusive Series 911 in a standard Porsche colour if you ask nicely, but the purists at Porsche Exclusive reckon that Golden Yellow Metallic is the real deal. Inside, you’ll find 18-way adjustable sports seats trimmed with two layers of perforated leather – the inside layer with two golden yellow stripes – while the seams and the Turbo S lettering on the head restraints are stitched in the same colour, and there are golden yellow stripes on the alcantara roof lining. The interior trim elements are made of carbon fibre interwoven with fine copper thread, as are the door sill plates, which are embellished with illuminated Exclusive Series Lettering. The Porsche 911 Turbo S Exclusive Series is available to order in South Africa from today (8 June), starting at R4 072 000, with a three-year maintenance plan; that’s a hefty R841 000 (or 26 percent) premium over the standard Turbo S, which starts from R3 231 000. Whether it's worth it depends on how much you like to be noticed.   IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 