Since then, she has appeared on SABC 3’s Expresso Morning as a member of the “Feel Good Breakfast Show” team and a radio presenter. I speak to her about her being a traffic presenter on the KFM Afternoon Drive show.  Tell us about yourself? I call both Cape Town and Durban home. I was born in Cape Town, our family relocated to Durban during my teens and although I’m back in Cape Town, they’re still based in KZN. I’ve always had an adventurous spirit. After high school, I took a gap year and spent 18 months in the US (Columbus, Ohio) as an au pair. I loved every moment and made the decision then and there that I want to follow a career that will allow me to maintain my adventurous side.  About your new role on KFM Afternoon Drive? I’m very excited for my new role on KFM. I will be joining Carl Wastie as traffic presenter on the Afternoon Drive show (4-7pm) Wastie and I have a good rapport, which I think will translate to an easy, fun drive show as we drive Cape Town home during weekdays. Listeners can expect a show that speaks and breathes Cape Town and also music and easy listening paired with Wastie’s special brand of humour and comedy. I will still be on-air on Saturdays during my weekly afternoon slot from 2pm  to 6pm.  What inspired you to start in the media industry? I completed my Honours degree in International Relations at Stellenbosch University. And while studying, I joined campus radio (MFM), and that’s where I fell in love with the radio industry. From radio, I ventured onto TV after taking part in the presenter search competition. This opportunity parlayed my new radio career at KFM. I started working at the station on a freelance basis from 2014.  What are the main challenges in getting into the entertainment industry? Opportunity is one of the biggest challenges. If you really think about it, the entertainment industry is small in South Africa. It’s not a case of you aren’t good enough to be in the industry, but that it’s not yet your time. Timing is everything in the entertainment industry. What do you enjoy you about working in broadcasting? Broadcasting connects you with everyone. You get a taste of everything and everyone. Although I don’t know everything, I do know a little about most things. Being in broadcasting forces you to never stop learning, changing and challenging yourself.  What has been your most memorable experience? I love doing my own DIY projects. My dad is a very practical man and has shown me how to 
do many things on my own. I had the opportunity to meet Tim Leatherman, the man behind the nifty tool that I grew up using, the Leatherman. What are some of the special moments in your presenting career? The most special moments are the ones where you get the opportunity to have an impact on someone else’s life. My favourite moment was doing the KFM Christmas Wish and the Christmas Truck of Love.  The Dos and Don’ts in your industry? A few dos: Do network. Do your homework/research. Always be prepared. Remember faces. Do say No. Do tell a little white lie. A few don’ts: Don’t be fake. Don’t be mean. Don’t forget where you came from.  Who are media personalities who inspire you - locally and internationally? I love looking at individuals within South Africa. I’ve always loved everything about former Miss South Africa Jo-Ann Strauss. Her career ambitions, but also the way she has carried herself over the years since winning Miss SA, but I’ve mostly admired how she used her platform. Internationally, I love the work of TV personalities Giuliana Rancic (US) and Rebecca Judd (Australia).  What fashion era do you love the most and why? Today. I love that these days all looks go. There are a few rules when it comes to fashion these days, and I feel that today, any era works.  What advice would you give to anyone who wants to pursue a career in the media? I feel that something like radio and TV presenting is not something you can study towards, but should rather get experience in. I would also say that things don’t always go your way first time round. In this industry you need to be flexible and be able to adapt, without having to compromise your morals.  Your favourite holiday
destination? Durban. Although I spent all my teen years there, it’s only now that I get to experience it on holidays when I visit the family.  Last words? Think of your life as a book. There are all sorts of books. It’s important to not compare your chapter X with someone else’s chapter Y, but when you experience writer’s bloc, that you continue to write your life chapters.  *  Connect with Zoë Brown on Instagram at @zbzoebrown