The woman, who was carrying her youngest grandchild on her back on Wednesday, said that she received medical treatment at the Galeshewe Day Hospital and Kimberley Hospital after suffering a prolapsed womb following the rape, which took place on Monday morning at about 3.30am. “I will have to undergo an operation for my injuries and I am suffering from extreme pain.” She stated that she was trying to protect her grandchildren, who are eight months and two years old, while she was being brutally raped. “I had fallen into a deep sleep and didn’t hear anyone trying to enter my house. I felt a heavy weight on me but was struggling to wake up. All I knew was that something was horribly wrong. I recognised the suspect as being my 51-year-old neighbour but was extremely drowsy and the house was pitch dark.” Ward councillor Paul Kok, who was alerted about the incident by a community member, said that he chased after the suspect along with members of Operation Wanya Tsotsi on Wednesday, which led to his subsequent arrest. “The suspect was at home and when I approached him he ran away. We chased after him and handed him over to the police,” said Kok. He added that the suspect lived in a semi-detached house next to the grandmother and it was suspected that he had entered her house through the trap door in the roof. “It is not safe for her to stay here alone with her grandchildren.” Kok added that community members would picket outside the court when the suspect appeared in the Kimberley Magistrate’s Court. “We cannot allow vulnerable women to be subjected to violent, sexual crimes of this nature. The suspect must not be released on bail.” Police spokesperson, Captain Bashoabile Kale, said that the suspect was arrested on Wednesday by members of the Roodepan police following an investigation. “A 51-year-old suspect was charged for rape and will appear before the Kimberley Magistrate’s Court soon,” said Kale. He indicated that it was believed that the suspect gained entry through a door that was closed but not locked. Kale urged anyone with information relating to the case to contact Warrant Officer Taaibosch from the Galeshewe Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit. The spokesperson for Operation Wanya Tsotsi, Pantsi Obusitse, said that they would patrol the area to keep a watch over the grandmother. “It is a shame that the crime could not have been prevented,” added Obusitse. Diamond Fields Advertiser 