THERE’S something very sensual about slipping into a pair of sexy high heels. Something as simple as a change in shoes can change how a woman feels inside. Not only that; it changes how you carry yourself and how you strut.
There’s nothing sexy about a woman wobbling on heels looking like a newborn calf trying to take its first steps. At some point every woman has entered a shoe store and fallen in love with a pair of heels, whether it’s a dainty, strappy heel or a fierce, patent black stiletto. There is the woman who will buy that pair and wear them every chance she gets and then there’s the woman who will wear them once, suffer for a few hours and toss them in the wardrobe to collect dust. I have great admiration for women who can wear heels all day, whether they are running a board meeting or running for the bus; for those who can dance the night away in sky-high heels when I can barely walk to the dance floor. Whether you’re comfortable on heels or simply grin and bear them, here are the pros and cons to wearing high heels. THE PROS Walking taller: One of the most obvious advantages of wearing heels is the extra height. For shorter women, this is a great confidence booster. Since heels come in different heights you can decide just how much you would like to boost your height. A slimmer looking you: Not only do heels offer additional height, but they give the illusion of a slimmer figure. When wearing high heels, you arch your back, which makes your chest push forward and your bum push out. This creates the illusion of a smaller waist. Tone those calves: Depending on the height of the heels your legs, especially your calves, do considerable work. Those who don’t often wear heels will notice how tight their calves feel after just one day. Those who wear them more often would have better toned calf muscles. THE CONS A pain in the, well, everything: Besides the immediate discomfort, the worst pressure is on the ball of the foot. But there are other more lingering and sometimes more permanent aches and pains caused by high heels. When you wear heels your ankles don’t rotate as they naturally should and your feet are forced into an angle which doesn’t allow for any movement. This has an impact on your knees and, as mentioned, wearing heels causes your body to curve, which places pressure and pain on your lower back. Take a tumble: It’s very difficult to balance perfectly on heels, especially very high stilettos with thin heels. Even professional models have lost their balance and taken nasty tumbles on the catwalk. An uneven surface or a slight wobble could cause you to twist or sprain your ankle, which could lead to a fall. And that could mean a broken bone.  Toes you’ll want to hide: Those pointy-toe heels might be fashionable but they force your toes into an uncomfortable and unnatural space. This usually causes pain and pressure on the small toe or the top of the toes. Continuous rubbing on those areas makes them harden, which results in calluses. Not only are these painful to remove; they are also unsightly when you want to wear sandals. Wearing heels might be painful, but there are precautionary measures you can take to improve comfort. If the shoe fits: When was the last time you had your feet measured? You would be surprised how your shoe size can change over the years, especially if you’ve had children. It might seem insignificant, but even half a measurement out can make a big difference between comfort and pain The thicker the better: Very high and thin-heeled stilettos should be reserved for special occasions, not for your day-to-day walkabout. If you wear high heels every day, opt for thicker heels. Block heels are still in fashion. They add the height you’re looking for and are far more comfortable. Skating on thin ice: If the burn on the ball of your foot is what deters you from wearing heels, you should wear shoes with a thicker sole. Shoes with a bit of a platform offer more relief too. Get padded: Gel foot pads are the best thing that could ever have happened for the lover of heels. These silicone pads help prevent the foot from sliding forward, which helps to protect your toes and reduce the pain experienced on the ball of your foot. Take time out: While sitting at your desk or when you have time off, take a few minutes to stretch your toes and rotate your ankles.