HMD Global, the home of Nokia phones, has announced the availability of the Nokia 3 in South Africa.  The Nokia 3 is a stunning new smartphone designed to deliver an outstanding experience with unprecedented value.  With a precision machined aluminium frame forged out of a single piece of aluminium, laminated 5” display with sculpted Corning® Gorilla® Glass and seamlessly integrated 8MP wide aperture cameras (front and back), the Nokia 3 packs a truly premium quality smartphone experience into its compact and elegant form. The Nokia 3 delivers Android™ in its pure form, giving you the ability to use your phone, your way. Superior craftsmanship at an affordable price With a precision machined aluminium frame, delivering exceptional structural integrity, and polycarbonate back, the Nokia 3’s robust design provides protection where it counts. The Nokia 3 boasts quality craftsmanship at an unprecedented price and is available in two distinct colours at launch – Matte Black and Tempered Blue. Exceptional viewing experience Featuring a fully laminated IPS display with no airgap and sculpted Corning® Gorilla® Glass, the Nokia 3 screen offers durability and superb clarity delivering a viewing experience that is second to none. With fewer reflections thanks to the polarised screen, the experience is crisp and clear offering unbeatable visibility even in bright sunlight.  ALSO READ:  Nokia 2.0 - The rebirth of the mobile phone brand Capture the moment The Nokia 3 has been designed to give a premium experience at an affordable price. The 8MP autofocus rear and front facing cameras have been balanced with large pixel size and aperture to deliver great images, particularly in low light situations. Combined with the exclusive camera user interface, to provide automatic scene detection, it is easy to take great shots every time. And with unlimited free cloud storage via Google Photos, you can snap all you want safe in the knowledge that every moment you capture can be automatically and securely backed up. “Premium is an experience, not a price point. We’ve been extremely thoughtful about the overall performance of the Nokia 3, to ensure that a premium high quality experience is fully accessible for everyone,” says Justin Maier, Vice President Sub Sahara Africa, HMD Global. Always Pure Android With the Nokia 3 you will have a pure Android experience for your device. With monthly security updates your Nokia 3 is safe, up-to-date as well as clutter-free – putting choice at the heart of the consumer experience.  And with the latest Android comes the latest features including Doze, which saves battery life while the phone is stored. The new Nokia 3 features Google’s most recent innovation, the Google Assistant, building further on a great Android experience. The HMD Global  teams have worked together to ensure conversations with the Google Assistant happen seamlessly on Nokia smartphones. Accessories There’s a range of accessories perfectly tailored to suit the Nokia 3. The Nokia accessories portfolio includes an in-car charger case and wall charger.