First holiday memory? As a child I remember often going to Sun City. I used to love the rides, animals and the candy store. Now Sun City is even more dear to me because it is the place where I was crowned Miss SA 2017. Favourite place in South Africa? I have a soft spot for the Western Cape. I find the Winelands magical. Best holiday? I visited Thailand last year. I absolutely loved the country, the people and the experience. It is such a diverse country with something for every mood you are in. It is the perfect destination to unwind and relax on a beach or dress up and enjoy a night out. The people are unbelievably friendly. What have you learnt from your travels? There’s no place like home. Meeting people from different countries makes you realise that everyone around the world has the same needs and aspirations. Also, South African food can’t be beaten. Ideal travelling companion? My best friend. Visiting Hartenberg wine estate. I have a soft spot for the Western Cape. I find the winelands magical. We understand each other’s interests and respect them. We also compromise for each other and know when to give each other some alone time, which can be an obstacle when travelling with someone for 10 days or more. Beach bum, culture vulture or adrenalin junkie? I prefer relaxing and soaking up the culture to getting an adrenalin fix. I love to experience a new country’s culture and history in a fun and memorable way. However, some days between activities, I just want to relax on a beach! Greatest travel luxury? My hair straightener that can straighten or make curls. Holiday reading? I like to read fiction. Some story that captures my imagination and takes me on a journey. Which place has seduced you? The raw and original beauty of Prague. This city has a fairy tale and medieval feel to it. Panoramic views of Bangkok from the Baiyoke Sky Hotel which stands at 88-storeys, making it Thailand's tallest hotel. Worst travel experience? A friend once left their passport at the guest lodge where we had been staying in Botswana. We ended up waiting three hours at the border post. Best hotel? No hotel beats the Table Bay Hotel in Cape Town. The breakfast, the view and the vibe are in a class of their own. Favourite walk, swim, ride or drive? The uMhlanga or Sea Point promenades cater for the most beautiful and safe walks or jogs. The crystal-clear water in Thailand offers the best swimming and snorkelling experience. Best meal abroad? Green chicken curry in Thailand, bread and cheese in Holland and Nutella crepes in Paris. Favourite city? Cape Town, without thinking twice. Where to next? New York soon. Catch up with Demi-Leigh’s journey on her Instagram page @demileighnp or on @official_misssa