The Peermont Hotel School (PHS), a world-class institution dedicated to hospitality training and development, congratulates its graduating class of 2017 – the first group of students to graduate from the school, which was launched just over a year ago. The PHS was funded by the Peermont Community Benefit Trust (PCBT) a CSI initiative of Emperors Palace. The graduation ceremony took place on Tuesday, 20 June 2017 at the stunning Peermont Hotel School at Emperors Palace.  Learners from the Ekurhuleni region are offered a 12-month bursary to train under hospitality industry professionals to gain practical insight into vital roles within the industry. Each group of 72 learners spends two of the 12 months’ training at the school based at Emperors Palace, two months at Emperors Palace working alongside the hotel’s world-class staff, and eight months with various industry partners, in order to hone their skills as chefs, restaurant service staff and housekeeping staff.  “Many of these learners come from challenging backgrounds and poor communities, and the opportunity to get a foot in the door of a rewarding career is hard to come by,” says Tshidi Madima, PCBT Chairperson “Peermont Hotel School provides these learners with the practical experience they need to build a career in hospitality, and a qualification that will boost their chances of not only developing on a personal level, but also support the upliftment of their communities.”  The training is designed to challenge the learners by placing them in the relevant working environments to their department, and teaching them valuable skills while on the job. Learners will receive a Skills Proficiency Certificate for successfully completing the course, which will give them access to the marketplace and boost their employability across the industry.  In addition to opening new doors in the hospitality world, PHS has also provided many of the learners with employment opportunities closer to home.  Nicholus Maake of Tembisa and Nwabisa Ngcingwana of Katlehong celebrate their achievements with the school’s Food and Beverage Programme Manager, Ben Zodwa of            Katlehong. Photo:Yolanda van der Stoep  “When I started at the Peermont Hotel School, I had no experience in hospitality, so I had to work hard to prove myself and show my commitment to the programme,” says PHS graduate, Manelisi Ndlovu. Ndlovu, who started as a waiter in the Food and Beverage department at PHS, now works at the reception of the five star D’oreale Grande hotel in Johannesburg.  “Opportunities for PHS students are not just limited to Peermont positions,” says Dave Milne, PHS Director. “Through the full year of training at PHS, the chances of being employed at any number of institutions within the hospitality industry across the country are much higher for the students.”  Celo, the appointed service provider for the development and delivery of PHS training programmes, is currently working towards providing learners with opportunities to experience external events and functions to broaden their employment potential after completing the course.  For more information, visit www.celo.co.za or contact Celo on 082 906 2744.