Having been introduced to caipirinhas in Rio during the Olympics, it seemed a sensible option, even though we only got to the Cape Milner in early May. By chance, we found some of the best weather we’ve ever had in Cape Town, and wasted no time locating the pool and barman. They certainly mix those caipirinhas well. To go with the South American tipple, the numerous deck chairs and the sparkling pool, you can also look up to Table Mountain while nestled in your charming, wind-free haven. Given its proximity to the city, the silence and sense of serenity you find in every room of the Cape Milner is quite something. Everywhere you look, you can see a mountain. And the hotel is surrounded by trees. We had come for a two-night stay, but the boutique hotel was so welcoming and charming we were considering changing the itinerary and staying a few extra nights. The property has been tastefully redesigned so that it retains its old-world charm, but with a sprinkle of modernity, including a chic bar and wonderful pool. The Cape Milner is just a very relaxing space to be in. For starters, most city hotels are high-rises, to cram in as many rooms as possible. This hotel, however, is spread across two floors at most and the space is used fantastically. From some rooms to the breakfast room, you pass the conference rooms but you don’t feel as if you’re intruding. Most of the people attending a conference looked on enviously as we whiled away the day by the pool, with a light book and a heavy drink. The food menu around the pool is also relaxed, and there is a more substantial offering for dinner. The bar is a lively place by night, with well-heeled locals stopping in for a drink or conference-goers letting their hair down after a day of whatever goes on in there. There are 57 rooms -including two suites and 10 luxury rooms - at the Cape Milner, and they are certainly not lacking in size. The beds are massive and each room feels more like a mini-flat. Breakfast is a full-on affair and they soon learnt not to expect us before 10am. That surely is one of the perks of being on holiday. Around the hotel, within walking distance, is everything the city has to offer. Kloof Street is a hop away, as is Long Street. Cape Town is too crammed to bother with a rental, and the Cape Milner is perfectly situated to zoom about in an Uber and not worry about sneaking a parking on one of the tight streets. For the foodie, Bree Street and its flood of eateries are close by, but good luck leaving the sanctity of the Cape Milner. Everything you could possibly need is right there, and the staff are friendly, informative and engaging. And if you are really lucky, the weather will play along and have you consider relocating to the Mother City. Well, you might at least want to move into the Cape Milner Hotel for a while. Call 0214261101 or visit http://capemilner.com