Cape Town City are set to reveal the name of their new head coach at a press conference in the Mother City on Tuesday morning. Club boss John Comitis wasn’t prepared to divulge anything, despite massive speculation on social media on Monday that former Bafana Bafana striker Benni McCarthy was the favourite for the vacant job at the ambitious Cape PSL club. All Comitis was prepared to say was “there is a surprise in store”. Comitis has had meetings with McCarthy and former Orlando Pirates coach Ruud Krol about the coaching position. McCarthy, 39, has vast experience of playing in Europe with Ajax Amsterdam, FC Porto, Celta Vigo, Blackburn Rovers and West Ham, and is Bafana’s record goal-scorer with 31 goals. Originally from Hanover Park, he recently acquired his UEFA A Licence coaching badge. The only coaching experience McCarthy has had so far is a stint as assistant coach at Belgian side Sint-Truiden, where his head coach at the time was Chris O’Loughlin – and it is interesting to note that O’Loughlin is among the applicants for the City position. The possibility of the coaching duo linking up again is also an option for Comitis.  Krol is a Dutch football legend, having played alongside the great Johan Cruyff. In 1979, he finished third in the European Footballer of the Year competition, behind Kevin Keegan and Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. Now 68, Krol has vast experience of coaching on the African continent, having steered Orlando Pirates to the PSL title and winning the Tunisian championship with CS Sfaxien. With City participating in the CAF Confederations Cup next season, there’s no doubt Krol’s experience would be of huge benefit. In contrast, McCarthy has little experience as a head coach, both in the PSL and on the continent. The other name said to be in the mix is Muhsin Ertugral, who has had a long friendship and association with Comitis. Turkish-born Ertugral also has extensive experience of coaching in the PSL and on the continent. Locally, he has been at Kaizer Chiefs, Ajax Cape Town and Mpumalanga Black Aces. In fact, his last stint was at Black Aces, and it’s that very same squad that has now morphed into Cape Town City. Ertugral will certainly know the players very well. But, ultimately, it’s Comitis’ decision – and all will be revealed on Tuesday. @Reinerss11   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 