With our feet snug and warm in thick socks and boots, protected from from the winter chill, we are not too concerned about keeping our feet in tip-top condition. In summer we spend hours in salons having our feet pedicured to perfection and making sure our toenails are painted in pretty colours, so it’s no wonder some women are happy have their feet hidden. But just because your feet are out of sight doesn’t mean they should be out of mind and get no attention. Summer eventually comes around again and the last thing you need to worry about is dry, cracked heels and calluses when you slip into your flip-flops again. Here are a few tips on how to take care of your feet during winter: Moisturise As we tend to wear nylon stockings during winter, opt for cotton socks as often as possible as cotton allows your feet to breathe. Be sure to moisturise your feet twice a day: in the mornings after your shower and in the evenings after a hot bath. As we tend to have hotter showers and baths to warm up, extra heat dries the skin. So moisturising prevents your feet from getting rough and dry. In addition to daily moisturising, use oils like coconut oil in your bath to help keep your skin nourished. Coconut oil is great for moisturising cracked heels as well. Home pedicure You might not be able to get to a salon as often as you would like (or just not up to heading out into the cold), but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t try and do a basic pedi at home at least every second week. Here is an easy routine to follow in the comfort of your own home: Soak: This is one way to soften the soles of your feet including your heels, which take most of the beating. Add a few drops of peppermint oil to a basin of warm water and soak your feet for 15 minutes. Then pat them dry with a towel. Exfoliate: A foot scrub helps to soften your heels and soles of your feet, as well as reducing tough calluses. Make your own scrub by combining a few tablespoons of olive or coconut, two spoons of honey and half a cup of brown sugar. Use this paste to exfoliate your foot. Once you’re done exfoliating, rinse off the scrub thoroughly with warm water. Pat dry. Pumice stone: Once you’ve rinsed off the scrub, you are now ready to start working on rough calluses. Using a pumice stone, gently start rubbing stubborn areas. For extra stubborn calluses, you can shave them off gently with a callus shaver. Moisturise: End your home pedi by applying your favourite intense moisturising cream or oil.