It's hard to keep your makeup in fresh in that store condition forever. And as any one will tell you, it can feel like the end of the world when you drop your favourite powder blush or lose the cap of a cream eyeshadow. But before you decide to throw away your rejects, take a step back and assess the damage. If your products are broken, dry, running low, or just look weird, chances are you can breathe new life into them. We've rounded up some quick fixes for the most common makeup disasters, so you can salvage your favourite makeup. READ:4 types of weaves: which one will you be Cracked Eyeshadow
If you've ever had to put on your makeup in a rush, you've probably dropped eyeshadow or maybe even a whole palette. When the product hits the floor, it's typically a sad, broken, and crumbly mess. Fortunately, there are ways to salvage a broken pan of powder. All you need is a little isopropyl alcohol and some plastic wrap.   Broken Lipstick One of the worst things that can befall a lipstick lover is broken or a melted one. Sadly, unless you have a lipstick mold, it's pretty difficult to restore the product to pristine condition. But with a little heat and an empty container, you can still get a lot of wear out of your favorite shade.   READ:5 for a healthy scalp Hard Film On Powder Products If your powder product like blush, bronzer, eyeshadow, etc suddenly loses its pigmented qualities, chances are a hard film has developed on its surface. This is often due to oil build up from months of use or unclean brushes. Often, people simply toss these products, but a strip of packing tape can bring them to life. Tear off a piece of packing tape and press it firmly over the top of the product then gently pull off the tape and watch as the gross layer of film lifts away.   Dried-Out Creams Some of the most common wear-and-tear makeup complaints are dried-out cream eyeshadow or blush that just doesn't perform like it used to. All you need to do is add a little saline solution  or some water to the dried product, mixing it in with a toothpick or make up spatula.