In celebration of Global Running Day this month, Westin Hotels and Resorts, part of Marriott International announced an addition to the Gear Lending program, which offers guests access to New Balance shoes and workout apparel during their stay for only $5.00 or the local currency equivalent. For the month of June, reflective wristbands and light-up sneaker clips will be included in the Gear Lending offering,  allowing guests to pack light, stay fit, and now, rise earlier.  “Travelers today are overscheduled and always-on; in response, we are seeing people realign their priorities to put their well-being first,” said Brian Povinelli, SVP and Global Brand Leader, Westin Hotels & Resorts. “Whether at home or on the road, often the only time guests have for themselves is the morning.  Fueled by our guests’ passion for running and the brand’s promise to empower travelers to move well, we hope this extension to our Gear Lending program will inspire travelers to rise early and own their morning.”  Global study sees a surge in travelers sweating before sunrise With less time and more disruptors on the road, 3 in 4 people have trouble maintaining their wellness routine while traveling: sleeping less and exercising less with increased stress levels, even when on vacation.   In response, guests around the globe are increasingly getting up before the sun to own their morning through well-being and regaining control of their routines on the road.  A global study conducted in partnership with StudyLogic revealed that almost 40% of global respondents are most in control of their wellness routine between 4:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. Surprisingly, nearly 25% of respondents specified that they are most in control between 4:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. And many of those wellness routines include running: 45% of global respondents intend to run while traveling.  “As someone who travels throughout the world bringing to life the brand’s renowned running program, I have never met a guest who wakes up early to run and regrets it,” said Chris Heuisler, National RunWESTIN™ Concierge.  “There is magic in the early morning hours that fosters a sense of comradery, broadens your perspective and reframes your day. With a strong commitment to the running community, we are delighted to shine a new light on running for travelers and support an event that has quickly become a global phenomenon celebrated around the world.”  Brand campaign challenges travelers: “Will you get up, or will you rise?” This initiative follows on the heels of the brand’s launch of its new multi-million-dollar campaign, Let’s Rise, which takes on the disruptions, distractions and unpredictability of travel while empowering travelers to embrace well-being as a way to regain control of their routines and be their best while on the road.  Because morning is the first and best opportunity to take control of the day ahead, the campaign uses morning light as a consistent creative device to speak to the potential that the morning holds. Overall, the campaign calls consumers to answer a simple question, “Will you get up, or will you rise?”  The Let’s Rise mantra will continue to serve as an anchor for the wellness programs and partnerships that roll out for guests and associates throughout the year. 