Before she was Wonder Woman, she was Diana, Princess of the Amazons, raised on a sheltered island paradise and trained to be an unconquerable warrior. But when an American pilot crashes off their shores and tells of a massive conflict raging in the outside world, Diana leaves her home, convinced she can stop the threat. Fighting alongside men in the war to end all wars, Diana will discover her full powers and her true destiny. Finally, DC got it right – Wonder Woman is a thrill ride that’s entertaining from beginning to end. DC has been doing its utmost to establish its extended movie universe, but critics and audiences have been divided on Man of Steel, Batman v Superman and Suicide Squad. The biggest complaints so far have been, firstly, DC’s inability to establish its characters and, secondly, that it has been, for the most part, reactionary towards the success of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. While Marvel has been flourishing, with every movie being a hit, DC has been on the struggle bus from the beginning. Wonder Woman is not only the first truly good DCEU movie, it is also the first female-led superhero movie. Yes, you read correctly. Out of all the superhero movies that have been released during this golden age of comic book films, we’ve had dololo female leads until now. After watching this spectacular film it just shows how ignorant studio executives have been. Gadot really shines in Wonder Woman and is surprisingly able to carry the film. This is also the first time DC has been able to produce a well-constructed three-act film. Chris Pine is also a surprisingly excellent male lead and the chemistry between him and Gadot is undeniable. The action in this film is awe-inspiring. Director Patty Jenkins’ take on a character who has been a feminist icon is amazing and the fact the film passes the Bechdel test makes my heart melt. The script is also the first time DC has been able to establish a good balance in tone. All the actors feel like they live in the same world with the high stakes evoking a real emotional reaction. The use of humour is also great and the comic timing is perfect. This is in stark contrast to the mess that is Suicide Squad and its haphazard script. The only negative is that the CGI is a bit questionable at times, but luckily this is only for a few scenes. DC should be very proud of Wonder Woman. This film is an exciting ride and is a sign of good things to come for the DCEU. Now let’s hope that Justice League can take the momentum of Wonder Woman and finally get the extended movie universe on an upward trajectory. IOL