NOTHING lasts forever and winter certainly doesn't. Soon we'll be swopping our chunky knits and boots for summer dresses and sandals. We’re already dreaming about soaking up the sun on the beach and drifting on a lilo in a cool sparkling pool or that summer holiday on a tropical island.
The essential wardrobe item for any of these summer activities is the perfect swimwear. Whether you’re an itsy-bitsy bikini sun seeker or a more conservative one-piece kinda girl, with this year’s summer swimwear trends there’s a swimsuit for you. From updates on classic silhouettes to more trendy cuts and fabrics, here’s a look at the hottest swimwear trends.  The cut-out one-piece Can’t decide between a bikini or a one-piece? The cut-out one-piece is still a great option to get a bit of both in one swimsuit. The cut-outs show as much or as little skin as you like, depending on what you’re wanting to expose, while providing the comfort of a one-piece.   Crisp white What better way to show off your sun-bronzed body than in crisp, clean white? White is still a firm favourite which will never date. No matter what trendy design you opt for, you simply can’t go wrong with this classic colour.  Zesty citrus Looking for a more vibrant colour? Citrus shades will definitely add a bit zest to your swimwear collection. From bright orange to mellow yellow, there’s a wide spectrum of warm tones to choose from in either solids or prints.  Flora Taking a leaf from Mother Nature’s botanical book: tropical islands still provide inspiration from palm trees to underwater plants in a variety of colours.  The high waist The '50s-inspired high-waisted bikini's been a hot favourite for a few years now. This classic, waist-accentuating style is updated with cut-out details down the sides and vibrant prints or solids.  Necklines High necklines and intricate designs create interesting details for a one-piece or bikini. Look out for criss-crossed fabrics and multiple straps.  Cover-ups Cover-ups have come a long way from simply wrapping a sarong around your waist. Beautiful soft-flowing sheer fabrics are now trending in a variety of designs, the open-front throw-over being a firm favourite. For a bit of drama, a sand-sweeping throw-over will get you noticed. Longer length or capped sleeves, bold prints or solids and any length you like make these a must have. A flowing printed kaftan is still an ideal cover-up for the more modest women.