AIRLINK has been selected by the St Helena Government as its preferred bidder to provide a commercial scheduled airline service to the South Atlantic island. Airlink’s selection follows a demonstration of the capability of its newly acquired Embraer E-190 to land and take off from the recently built airport on St Helena island. St Helena island, part of the British Overseas Territory also encompassing Ascension and Tristan da Cunha islands, is a remote volcanic outpost in the South Atlantic Ocean. Here are some things to do: NAPOLEON: Did you know that the French Emperor was exiled at St Helena from 1815 until he died in 1821. Visit the The Napoleonic properties – Longwood House, the Briars Pavilion and Napoleon’s Tomb. On May 5, 1821 Napoleon passed away at Longwood House and was buried in Sane Valley on May 9, 1821. To commemorate this occasion, a Moment de Memoire is attended by islanders at his Tomb on, or near May 5 each year. There are many artifacts that can be seen. PLANTATION HOUSE: Plantation House was built on St Helena in 1792 as a country residence for the Governor of the Honourable East India Company. Plantation House is now the seat of the Governor of St Helena and its two dependencies, the Islands of Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.The house has 35 rooms, many of them are very large and connected by passages with archways. It is also the home of the world’s oldest living animal, a giant tortoise who is around 180 years old. There are occasional tours of the house, although the paddock(where the tortoises live) is open during the day. CASTLE GARDENS This is one of the most beautiful places on the island. Some of the island’s endemic plants can be seen here, including the rediscovered island ebony. HEART SHAPED WATERFALL The waterfall is located at the top of James Valley. There has been a trail set up through the wild mango and scrub that provides access to the foot of the waterfall. The trail starts from Drummond’s Point on the Barnes Road track. JACOB’S LADDER Built in 1829, as an inclined plane, which was used to haul manure up from town and send goods down. The ladder is 183m high and has 699 steps. Once you have completed the ladder, make sure you buy your souvenir certificate from the museum. Source: St Helena Tourism Important Information on bookings There will be a stopover at Windhoek International Airport in Namibia before the flight continues to St Helena Airport. On the return route, the flight will stop over at Windhoek before returning to Johannesburg.
On both legs of the journey there will be an opportunity for a connection at Windhoek to a connecting flight to and from Cape Town; this gives flexibility to passengers to go to either destination.
A proving flight will need to take place and more information will follow in due course.Over the coming weeks, Airlink will be finalising regulatory approvals with the South African Civil Aviation Authority.
Following the necessary approvals, it is anticipated that a service between St Helena Airport and OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg will commence in October.
Information on ticket sales and details on the cost of fares and sales distribution will be issued in due course. 