Middelburg - About 300 people, including members from the African National Congress (ANC), Democratic Alliance (DA) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on Friday, sang and danced together outside the Middelburg Magistrate’s Court in support of coffin assault victim, Victor Mlotshwa. The crowd gathered outside the court where Willem Oosthuizen and Theo Martins Jackson were found guilty of attempted murder, assault with the intent to cause grievous bodily harm, kidnapping, and intimidation in the Middelburg High Court that was sitting in the Middelburg Magistrate’s Court. One of the men was also found guilty of obstructing the administration of justice. The crowd danced to the tunes of struggle songs played on the back of the ANC truck and ran from one side of Beyers Naude Street to the other hoisting their different party flags. “We are here to support Victor because racism has no place in our society,” said EFF member Nomsa Mahlangu. “Sometimes you have to put your differences aside and do what is good for our country. But dancing with ANC members does not necessarily mean we support their policies.” DA member Vusi Shongwe described the gathering of three different political parties outside the court as a sign that political parties cared about the citizens of the country. “I have been attending this case since day one. Sometimes tensions were high between us and our other political rivals, but I’m glad we have showed good support to Victor during moat parts of the case.” ANC member Sophie Malatjie encouraged other political parties to do the same in many court cases, especially the ones that involved incidents that appeared to be racially motivated. Oosthuizen and Jackson were arrested late last year, shortly after a video of the incident went viral on social media and sparked outrage, as well as making headlines internationally. The duo will be sentenced on October 23 and their bail of R1,000 each was extended. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. African News Agency