TV presenter and radio host Pearl Modiadie made us all drool over her amazing Instagram posts when she travelled to Bali earlier this year. Bali has become a budget friendly destination that allows for fun, great activities and beautiful views. Clinton Moodley provides some places you could consider staying at when visiting Bali. 2 star hotels  The Green Garden Hotel Where is it? Jalan Kartika, Kuta, Kabupaten Badung, Bali Known as one of Bali’s premier budget hotels, I am surprised at how high the level of service is. The Green Garden Hotel  offers great value for money and is in a prime location. The hotel is in central Jalan Kartika Plaza, 200 meters away from South Kuta beach. Green Garden Hotel offers 25 rooms, fitted with all Western facilities including air-conditioner, free wifi, and TV. The pictures on their website is enticing enough to have Legian Guest House Where is it? Jl. Nakula Timur Banjar Legian Kaja, Legian, Kuta, Pemecutan Klod, Denpasar Bar., Kota Denpasar, Bali 80361, Indonesia Legian Guest House is another budget friendly hotel in Kuta  that provides a real Bali experience in Bali’s premium location of Legian beach. What’s special about this hotel is that it showcases Bali traditions through its cuisine and hospitality.  Legian Guest House offers high standard en suite rooms, free WIFI , a swimming pool and a restaurant. It situated 20 minutes drive from Bali International Airport and easy access to Legian beach, Balinese foods night market, Seminyak shopping area and legendary Kuta beach. 3 star hotels  Adi Dharma Hotel Where is it? Jl. Benesari, Kuta, Kabupaten Badung, Bali Adi Dharma Hotel is a family hotel nestled in the heart of Kuta. A tranquil setting, Adi Dharma Hotel is filled with beautiful gardens  that sets the tone for a tranquil stay.  Adi Dharma has 68 comfortably superior rooms, 10 deluxe room, 4 super deluxe Rooms and 5 family rooms. Some of the guest facilities include the Adi Cempaka restaurant and bar  that is open 24 hours and caters for international tastes. Adi Dharma Hotel also has meditation hall, and culture activities such as Balinese dance and music, spa and beauty salon Bali Ginger Suites and Villas Where is it? Jalan Drupadi II, Seminyak, Kuta, Kabupaten Badung, Bali Located in the heart of Seminyak,  Bali Ginger Suites is ideal for guests looking to experience inner city living, dining and shopping Bali style and be close to the beach. The sophistication and style of the rooms and villas brings a sheer pleasure for guests.  Tandjung Sari Hotel Where is it? Jalan Danau Tamblingan No. 41, Sanur, info@tandjungsarihotel.com, Sanur, Denpasar Sel., Kota Denpasar, Bali Around 50 years old, this hotel on Sanur beach is pristine, discreet and elegant.  The Tandjung Sari did not intend to become the seminal boutique hotel of tropical Asia. It began in 1962 as a place to spend the night for its owner Wija Wawo-Runtu and his English wife Judith when they came to Bali from Jakarta on shopping trips for their antiques business. Soon extra bungalows were built to accommodate friends, then friends of friends. It became a hotel almost without anyone noticing it. Today the accommodation offerings are top of its class and the in house library and gym is well equipped so you do not have to get bored when you tired from sightseeing. 5 star hotels Mulia Villas - Nusa Dua, Bali Where is it?  Jl. Raya Nusa Dua Selatan, Kawasan Sawangan, Benoa, Badung, Kabupaten Badung, Bali 80361, Indonesia The private villas takes five star to another level. Each villa boasts a hydrotherapy pool, a daybed, 24 hour butler experience and daily breakfast and afternoon tea. There are complimentary classes, beach activities and fitness facilities.