South African born comedian and 'The Daily Show' host Trevor Noah is back in South Africa on tour. The local funnyman, who recently revealed that he suffers from depression, is doing a series of press interviews to promote his four-show gig. One of them includes a radio interview with his pal and talk show host, Anela Mdoda. Speaking on Anela's Breakfast Club Show on Tuesday morning, the hilarious duo touched on a range of topics, including his best selling biography, 'Born A Crime and Other Stories', as well as politics. Parliament is holding a secret ballot vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma on Tuesday afternoon, and Trevor suggested that if he were to cast a vote he would vote for Zuma to stay. The comedian then jokingly explained that "it woukld be the greatest tactical move". Other issues that Trevor is set on tackling, is addressing the backlash he received after buying his R130-million New York apartment. During an interview with DJ Fresh on Monday, Trevor said: "I was just like, it's funny that people are worried about a house I bought with my own money, when our president is buying houses with our money but people are keeping quiet about that one. So, I tell people I bought two houses, one in Nkandla and one in New York" he said. He also spoke about the challenges he faced while dealing with the early stages of depression. "I think we have a misconception of what it is. So when they say you suffer from depression people think you’re saying you’re just sad all the time. You’re not sad. You know what depression is? Essentially, it will be a chemical thing in your brain where you perceive what is happening to you now to be happening to you forever," Trevor explained. He continued: "So if you’re having a bad day now or you’re having a bad moment, in your mind you go, ‘it’s forever’. And then you don’t want to wake up, you don’t want to work, you don’t want to live, you don’t want to do anything. It’s like its one of those things where you just deal with it." Trevor's show 'There's a Gupta on my Stoep' kicks off tomorrow night and runs until the 12th at the Dome in Johannesburg.