DURBAN - Celebrated businessman, Vivian Reddy along with his Edison Brand have been awarded with two prestigious accolades this past Thursday. Edison Corporation Group Executive Chairman, Vivian Reddy received the 2017 Standard Bank KZN Top Business Award for Business Personality of the year. The KZN Top Business Awards event was held in Umhlanga, Durban. Reddy received a standing ovation from the 500 strong KZN business personalities at the function. The organisers highlighted his business and philanthropic leadership role.
 
On the same evening, in Johannesburg, Edison Property Group, which is the property division of Edison Corporation, was recognised by the SA Institute of Black Property Practitioners (SAIBPP) at the SAIBPP Convention and Annual Awards in Houghton, Johannesburg.  One of the flagship projects of the Edison Property Group is the R3.8 Billion Oceans Umhlanga Development in Durban which is set to employ 15 000 people during the construction phase and create 2 500 permanent jobs. The project comprises of 40 000 m2 mall, a 220 key Raddison Blu Hotel and 2 Apartment Towers boasting 460 opulent apartments which promises to be a world-class development.
 
Unable to attend the Johannesburg awards ceremony, Vivian Reddy was represented in Johannesburg by two young Edison Property executives, Brian Mpono and Siyabonga Tembe at the SAIBPP Convention and Annual Awards. They expressed their excitement for this recognition and thanked SAIBPP for honouring Edison Property Group. You may also be interested in: Vivian Reddy splashes out on biggest marquee at Durban July
 
Brian Mpono, project director for the Oceans Umhlanga Radisson Blu Hotel Public Offer said, “We are very fortunate to be entrusted with such responsibility, never in my lifetime did I ever think I would be tasked with not only raising capital for the R620m Oceans Hotel project but, also paving the way in transforming the industry together with my colleague Siyabonga.  South Africa if you want to know what transformation is and how it’s done, ask Edison Property Group.” Siyabonga Tembe is the project development manager of the KwaDukuza Precinct and mall development in Stanger shared the following sentiments, “The evening’s event topic was transformation and I truly believe that Brian and I are living proof of that, thanks to Edison Property Group and the opportunities provided to us by our chairman, Vivian Reddy”. Reddy said, “He was humbled by these two awards and it spurs him on to continue with his service to humanity." BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE