The Australian reality show, My Kitchen Rules is coming to South Africa and there are a few foodie surprises on the menu. In the first season of My Kitchen Rules SA, launching on M-Net this month, there are some great but surprising flavours going to be served. The first installment of the local adaptation of the Australian hit show will see two teams of five couples go head to head for the title. The couples are from across SA and there are a few surprises in store for viewers looking for foodie inspiration. Farmhouse Inspiration If you have a longing for some farmhouse food, then the team to watch is Lani and Louzel, a mother and daughter pair from Cradock. Lani serves up some home cooked farmhouse warmth, butter cookies, karoo lamb, fresh fruit and veg as well as eggs and milk sourced from right on the farm. Her daughter Louzel is a bit more modern but firmly rooted in her heritage, so there will be some great collaborations in this kitchen. Hunter Gatherers Liz and Leanne are best friends from Bloem and are feisty cooks. The surprise here is that Leanne is quite the farm girl and not only can she hunt and shoot, she also can slice and dice a carcass. “Any kind of cut you want, even biltong as well,” she says. So when these two get into the kitchen expect a few more surprises and some great cuts of meat. Asian Flavours Who would’ve thought that on the first season of My Kitchen Rules SA there would be such a diversity of flavours, including Asian inspired dishes. Bruce and Claudia from Midrand are a married couple who will serve “Asian-influenced food...with lots of spices and chillies.” They are the surprise package on the menu because Bruce says his favourite home grown ingredient is rooibos and Claudia loves desserts so they are definitely going to tickle the taste buds. Braai masters Rein and Rowan from Krugersdorp are water polo buddies who regularly enter potjiekos competitions. At first impressions you’d expect them to be quite predictable and serve dude food like steak and chops but they have a finesse in the kitchen with Rein claiming to love “cooking a fusion of Asian and Mediterranean dishes.” Don’t judge these blokes by their braai tongs, they have some foodie tricks up their sleeves. Mi Casa frontman-turned-chef, J Something and celebrity chef and restaurateur, David Higgs, are the judges on the show. They will preside over 10 pairs of contestants split up into two teams of 5 pairs each. My Kitchen Rules premieres on Sunday, August 13 at 6pm on M-Net 