Local TV personality Bonang Matheba launched her book, Bonang: A to B, at Sandton City's Diamond Walk on Thursday night to much fanfare, despite being widely criticised on social media for its 'grammatical and factual errors'. .my book launch is tonight... Time to sparkle & shine. 💕💕💕 #FromAtoBLaunch #Book A post shared by Bonang Matheba (@bonang_m) on Aug 3, 2017 at 10:56am PDT One of the errors highlighted was Bonang's birth date. The book stated  24 June, when it is 25 June. The book, which was published by Black Bird Books in conjunction with Jacana Media, is Bonang's first — she hopes to publish another two. Speaking at the book launch, BlackBird Books publisher, Thabiso Mahlape, said she took responsibility for the errors. "I take full responsibility for what happened. The last thing I want is for black people to be accused of mediocrity and I should do better. It's on me as the publisher. I ought to have done better," she said. Thabiso said the 24th was stuck in her head as Bonang's birth date because the TV personality initially planned to have a party the day before her actual birthday. "It was my mistake. I wrote that line and it went through all the various processes and no one caught it... it happens," she said. Thabiso added she was grateful to have worked with Bonang on the project because it "changed her life". "When we started the process of bringing this book into life, I asked Bonang if she liked me. Because I know that along the way, there are fights between authors and publishers. At times we wanted to kill each other. This is why a healthy and strong relationship between an author and their author is very important," she said. "Working with you [Bonang] has changed the way I do business forever." .thank you @ayandaalliep... You were so poised.... So perfect!! Magical night... 💕💕👑 #FromAtoBLaunch A post shared by Bonang Matheba (@bonang_m) on Aug 4, 2017 at 4:56am PDT Terry Phetho, Rami Chuene, Basetsana Khumalo, Johanna Mukoki, Mampho Brescia and Bonang's parents and family members also attended the pink-themed event. The 30-year-old released her book early July and already it has claimed the number one spot as a best seller at Exclusive Books. .yum. 💕💕💕 #FromAtoBLaunch A post shared by Bonang Matheba (@bonang_m) on Aug 4, 2017 at 2:18am PDT