We know that women are caring wives, mothers, and caretakers for our people, but what about the role of the independent woman? The woman without a husband? The woman without children? The woman with ambition and drive? And even those married women with children who still have a desire to make their professional aspirations a reality. This Women’s Month, I want to preach a message of economic empowerment to South Africa’s women. We see that globally, far more women are entering male-dominated industries and flourishing, female representation in African parliaments is increasing, and 
even secular states are reviewing sexist legislation under increased international pressure for gender equality. In South Africa, we are lucky to be protected by one of the world’s most liberal constitutions, but our society still remains highly sexist and patriarchal. It is up to each and every woman in our country to push the boundaries of what is expected of them. The only way for us to be included in South Africa’s economy, is for women to carve out a place for themselves as vital contributors to an economic system that is inclusive of women as equals to men. Tourism is South Africa’s fastest growing industry. In fact, a report released by Statistics South Africa in December 2016, revealed that tourism now employs more workers than mining. The report also stated that some 700 000 South Africans are employed in tourism, with every 1 in 22 employed citizens working in this sector. These statistics are a clear indication of the changing nature of South Africa’s economy. We see that traditional sources of employment making use of raw labour are in decline, while a burgeoning service industry economy is buoying our country’s growth rate. It is in sectors such as tourism where easily accessible skills can transform the lives of previously disadvantaged South Africans, providing a sustainable and profitable income for millions of our people. The problem with this sector, however, is worrying levels of gender representation. A report by the United Nations Trade and Development body, showed that Africa is set to welcome 134 million visitors by the year 2031, becoming one of the world’s leading tourist destinations. South Africa already attracts a large chunk of these visitors. What sets the tourism sector apart as a job-creating industry in South Africa, is the fact that it is easily accessible to the majority of the female population for economic exploitation. From running catering businesses, to bed and breakfasts and hostels, to guided tours, South African women are beginning to realise the endless potential the tourism sector can bring. Tourism is arguably the easiest and most profitable sector for female entrepreneurs as it allows women to make a business out of skills they already possess. It is also an ideal sector for women to express themselves and their culture, or educate foreigners on the intricately diverse beauty of our country. In fact, we need women in tourism for this very reason because they showcase a side of our country that men so often neglect - our stories, our humanity, and our struggles. Having women in tourism means having a relatable part of our population representing our country to the many people who come here, not only to see South Africa’s raw natural beauty, but her people’s rich history. It is in this human demand where underprivileged women can empower themselves in the tourism sector. But there needs to be a push for educated and capable South African women to take up senior positions in the tourism sector. We need increased female 
representation in managerial roles and on the boards of larger companies as a catalyst for a trickle-down effect with regards to female 
representation. Having a woman in a senior position means having an ally of women’s rights in the tourism workplace. This gives women greater control over the workings of the tourism sector, and diversifies an already male-dominated industry. Men also need to realise the value of including women in the sector, not merely as workers and subordinates, but as active partners and decision-makers capable of steering a business in the right direction. I hope to inspire and empower the many women reading this letter to take charge of the economic possibilities available to them within this sector. Women need not merely see tourism as a glamorous industry for a select few. On the contrary, it is one of few sectors where women with no formal education can make a substantial life for themselves. The exploitation of South Africa’s burgeoning tourism industry is a breeding ground for women who have a hunger to succeed. With the right opportunity, and an environment which fine- tunes and specialises existing skill, tourism can provide a much-needed means out of poverty. I strongly encourage each and every woman in South Africa to consider a career in tourism. You will find that in an ever-globalising world, this sector could be the place for a female-driven powerhouse industry. But most importantly, this industry could be the lifeblood of female employment in South Africa. Our country needs a means to restore dignity to our people through jobs and opportunity. The tourism sector is perhaps the easiest means to bring this to our people, and the best place for South African women to advance economically. Of course, the ripple effect of such opportunity is vast and far-reaching. In essence, giving a women a job in the tourism sector means giving a livelihood to each and every person depending on her. Having women in tourism is absolutely vital for South Africa’s development, and we must 
foster and grow this sector for female employment if we want South Africa, and its women, to advance. * Schäfer is MPP and chairperson of the Standing Committee on Economic Opportunities, Tourism and Agriculture, Western Cape Provincial 
Parliament