In case you missed it, here's a recap of our top stories. Harry's girlfriend tells of racism 'Suits' actress Meghan Markle has told how she feels compelled to speak out about racism after being subjected to years of prejudice by people unaware of her heritage. Read the full story here. WATCH: Diana's devastating revenge from the grave Channel 4 defied criticism to air private video recordings in which the princess revealed details of her sex life with Prince Charles. Read the full story here. Former 'Generations' actress dies Former Generations actress Mary Makgatho has died. Makgatho reportedly passed away as result of complications following a bad fall in July. Read the full story here. Susan Sarandon spotted in Cape Town Actress and activist Susan Sarandon has Cape Town in a flutter after pictures on social media showed the Hollywood legend on vacation in the Bo-Kaap and at the V&A Waterfront. Read the full story here. Try Tembe for a truly wild time ‘It's not Kruger,” someone said. Good, I thought to myself. Read the full story here. 7.30am, the best time to have sex It might play havoc with your work and domestic schedules but the best time to make love is 7.30am, a survey claims. Read the full story here. Rihanna stuns at Crop Over carnival The Bajan princess attended the 2017 Crop Over carnival in Barbados. She once again blessed the world with a sexy bejewelled bikini accompanied with signature carnival feathers and her new bold blue wig. Read the full story here. South African hotels that are popular with celebs We all love seeing our favourite movie star or personality. Here are some hotels in SA and Nambia that have had their fair share of popular guests. Read the full story here. The mystery of the Bermuda Triangle The Bermuda Triangle, also known as the Devil's Triangle, is a loosely-defined region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, where a number of aircraft and ships are said to have disappeared under mysterious circumstances. Read the full story here.