The 36-year-old television personality launched her eponymous make-up line earlier this year, and the raven-haired beauty has taken to social media to reveal she has been working on new products for her line, which she will unveil this month. New product alert! @kimkardashian and @desiperkins on set today filming a tutorial using the NEW product from the #KKWBEAUTY line + Desi’s new product, both coming in August. Can you guess what our new product is? Stay tuned to find out. A post shared by KKWBEAUTY (@kkwbeauty) on Jul 31, 2017 at 6:04pm PDT  Alongside a photograph of the 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' with influencer Desi Perking, which was shared on the KWK Beauty Instagram account, it read: "New product alert! @kimkardashian and @desiperkins on set today filming a tutorial using the NEW product from the #KKWBEAUTY line + Desi's new product, both coming in August. Can you guess what our new product is? Stay tuned to find out (sic)." The cosmetic company has also revealed a photograph of three models on set of a photoshoot for the brand's upcoming merchandise. On set with these beauties shooting our newest #KKWBEAUTY product. Coming soon! A post shared by KKWBEAUTY (@kkwbeauty) on Aug 1, 2017 at 6:23pm PDT  An image of the trio it read: "On set with these beauties shooting our newest #KKWBEAUTYproduct. Coming soon! (sic)." But Kim has kept the details of the forthcoming additions close to her chest. And this is not the first time the reality star - who has 20-month-old son Saint and four-year-old daughter North with her husband Kanye West - has hinted more merchandise will be released in the label. She said previously: "This is the start of many amazing products." The news Kim is developing her beauty collection comes as no surprise as celebrity make-up artist, Pat McGrath, has revealed the style icon is "obsessed" with make-up. She said previously: "Kim is one of those rare girlfriends who is truly just as obsessed with make-up as I am." And Pat has admitted she has spent hours talking about cosmetic products with the mother of two, which sees them exchange beauty secrets with one another. Pat added: "We can literally talk about products for hours! We share all our secrets."