The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport, after a thorough assessment by a highly specialist team of engineers, has announced the re-opening of main road P496 (known as John Ross highway), which was opened to traffic on Sunday afternoon. This announcement follows a visit on Sunday by MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Mxolisi Kaunda, together with the mayor of uMhlathuze Mdu Mhlongo. READ: PICS: John Ross highway collapse to cause major traffic delays The department said in a statement that they had been earlier briefed by the team of senior engineers of the department, who assured them that two lanes would be opened on the westbound side, to allow traffic flow following the occurrence of sinkhole, which forced the road to be closed since Friday. Kaunda also visited the site of the sinkhole to conduct an inspection. The sinkhole, they said, was approximately five metres wide and its possible cause was the water pressure from the pipes, which went through the sand underneath the structure, resulting in the blockage and ultimately the collapse of the road structure. “No injuries were recorded during the incident and engineers have completed the road markings on the two lanes on the west bound with visible signage onto the two on the westbound lanes.” They said contractors would be onsite and start with the repairs on Wednesday. “Construction of the road will take approximately 10 weeks and a joint collaboration between the Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) and uMhlathuze traffic police will continuously manage the traffic flow.” They said that while the road was now open, motorists were also advised to continue using alternative routes to ease the pressure. “The damage caused on this road will impact on the economy of the province and that of uMhlathuze municipality, temporarily due to traffic disturbance. It is also important for us as the department to undertake a thorough assessment of all road networks in the province, which may experience a similar challenge to avert a repeat of a similar experience,” said Kaunda.