Carmel, California - Aston Martin and Zagato’s Vanquish line-up is set to expand into a family of four bodystyles, with the Coupe and Volante being joined by a Shooting Brake and Speedster. Yet the collaborating pair are not about to let exclusivity slip out the window as the range will be limited to a maximum of 325 cars in total. The new Speedster will be the most exclusive, with just 28 of them being produced, while the Coupe, Volante and Shooting Brake will each be limited to 99 units. While the Coupe and open-top Volante have already been revealed, this is the first time that Aston Martin is showing us the Speedster and Shooting Brake, although it’s fair to say that the latter has only been partially revealed as all we have is a side shot and a group picture in which the tail is concealed. However, we do get to virtually-drool all over the Speedster, with its characteristic ‘double bubble’ tail, but before you start excitedly shuffling your Swiss funds around, note that all 28 have already been sold and they’re set to be delivered to their lucky owners during the course of 2018. As with its Zagato siblings, the lavishly-styled Speedster is based on the Vanquish S and is powered by a 441kW normally aspirated V12 that drives the rear wheels through a Touchtronic III transmission with flappy paddles. Likewise, the body panels are made from carbon fibre. The Shooting Brake is a more practical alternative and although it remains a two-seater, it does have a powered tailgate and comes with a tailored luggage set. Buyers can also opt for a fully aniline leather upholstery. But why has the company created a family of Zagato models? Aston Martin Chief Creative Officer, Marek Reichman explains: “Well, many of our customers want different things. Some prefer the purity of a Coupe, but others love the idea of something more extreme, like the Speedster. And yes, some of them have ordered one example of each. “There’s always an over-demand from our clients and patrons. We could easily fulfill demand for more cars than this, but we want Zagato to remain something very special. We’re creating collectibles, future concours cars. With only 325 cars worldwide, they are still the rarest of the rare.” IOL Motoring