Ernest Hemingway said the circus was the only fun you could buy that was good for you. Starting this week fun lovers will be treated to a circus with a splashy twist. Direct from Russia comes Splash!  - The Water Circus, on their first tour of South Africa. The tour launches in The Globe at Silverstar Casino in Krugersdorp for a short season that runs until September 17, before touring across the country until the New Year. Splash! - The Water Circus is a matchless theatrical experience that presents an array of circus genres, but with a distinctive visual surprise. All of the acts are presented in - or above - a pool of water 12m in diameter. Accompanying this is a dazzling light and laser show which displays body manipulation and contortion feats performed in the middle of a series of water fountains. Twitter reacts to #BonangByCell app Traditional aerial circus acts such as the spectacular Silks all take place above water. Added to the  impressive list is the Brazilian Espana family’s daredevil Wheel of Death and Russian Swing performance. The show also has a team of synchronised swimmers. This circus is animal-free and showcases the capabilities of the human body in an action-packed show. Presented around the custom-built pool, it is a memorable experience. At its inception in 1998, the first Russian Water Circus was performed under the name Circus on Water. Since then, the creative team has developed new acts and productions. Over the past 19 years, the Circus on Water team has toured Russia, Europe, the Middle East and China. The production has not toured internationally since a major renovation in 2013. This piqued the interest of international producer Harry Weber and local producer Matthew Cook. Why drag Bonang into Nonhle's Twitter rant? “Harry and I share a passion for the circus, and when we decided that we wanted to collaborate, we looked for a show that would be vastly different from anything presented in South Africa before,” said Cook. “We wanted to push the boundaries of the circus experience and offer something unique. When we came across Circus on Water we had to bring the show to South Africa.” “We have selected the best acts to tour South Africa,” said Weber. “And we’ve added some extreme acts which we know audiences will love. The technical and artistic elements which we incorporated make Splash! unforgettable”.  *  Book at Computicket 0861 915 8000 
or www.computicket.com. IOL