Johannesburg - A video allegedly showing the Deputy Higher Education Minister Mduduzi Manana assault incident at a club in Johannesburg has surfaced online. The video comes after Manana admitted to slapping a woman, Mandisa Duma, following an altercation in which Duma allegedly called him gay. The incident happened at Cubana in Fourways in the early hours of Sunday morning. Speaking out on the incident was Phesheya Duma, Mandisa's brother, who related the event to Talk 702 host Xolani Gwala. "We were at Cubana with our family, with the deputy minister seated at one of the tables next to us," Phesheya said. "It was quite cordial for most of the evening and at about 8, we began to interact with him on the current politics of the country." Phesheya then explained that things were fine until his family, bar his sisters, decided to leave. His sisters decided to stay on and at around 3am, an argument ensued between the two women and Manana. Manana then allegedly slapped one of the woman and then following them out to the parking lot, after the women left, where he and his friend continued to assault them. Commenting on Manana's allegation that one of the sisters called him gay, Phesheya said this was no justification for the assault. "There was a comment on [his sexuality] but I cannot say that was enough reason to assault someone all the way to the parking lot," he said. Police ministry spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga has since confirmed that a case of assault was opened at the Douglasdale Police Station. "Last night, we finally tracked down at which police station the case was opened and we found out that it was at Douglasdale... and we can confirm that a case was opened," Mhaga said. Mhaga added that the case would be treated as any other ordinary case and that the statement would be taken from the deputy minister. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula's office also spoke out on matter, saying the minister noted the allegations against the deputy minister. "Minister Mbalula take these allegations very serious. [The] protection of women and vulnerable groups are a number one priority of the police ministry. "Women deserve love and protection from all of us. The police must be given space to investigate this case without fear or favor, no one is above the law irrespective of their position in Society." Mbalula added. The ANC and women's league have since spoken out, with the ANC saying it was disappointed to learn of the reported incident. "Such behavior is unacceptable and should be roundly condemned by all in our society, regardless of the circumstances or the identity of the perpetrator or victim," spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said in a statement. "The African National Congress calls upon our law enforcement agencies to act without fear or favor to investigate these allegations and bring the perpetrators to book." The DA meanwhile, said while it welcomed the criminal charges against Manana, this was simply not enough. "Deputy Minister Manana must immediately apologise and then resign from his post. He is clearly unsuited to hold it. "If the ANC government were at all serious about protecting women, they would immediately suspend him pending a full and thorough investigation."    IOL