The much anticipated third season of Siba’s Table is back and will premiere in September on the Food Network (DStv channel 175). In the new season, Siba will be giving traditional food a modern makeover and her signature Sibalicious’ spin. This season will see the award winning chef once again whip up delicious dishes for her family and friends. Siba will get behind the braai, cooking up some Greek-style lamb with MasterChef South Africa Judge, Pete Goffe-Wood. Chicken gets a peri-peri makeover when Siba joins forces with the other queen of South African cuisine, Ina Paarman and goes head-to-head with acclaimed chef and owner of Cape Town's The Test Kitchen and The Pot Luck Club, Luke Dale Roberts. Another special guest who will make an appearance on the show will be Siba’s nine-month-old daughter for kid-friendly snacks. Siba will also share some of her food styling secrets when she gives beef carpaccio and spicy chicken tacos a presentation makeover. Other meals viewers can expect to see on Siba's table, include braai pork sliders and sides, international favourites like poke, Australian wagyu steak, and some romantic dinner date delights. Siba says she is excited about the upcoming season. “It is extremely exciting that finally we have third season,” she says. "(In preparation) for the show I always research and make sure that I’m always on par with food trends. "We make sure we are at the forefront and teaching ordinary people about what's happening so they can also make it at home. "So I made it my responsibility to make those trends available to everyone," she says Siba says she always wanted to work “behind the scene” and never thought she would find her place in front of the camera and in many homes around the world. After obtaining her degree on consumer sciences, Siba says she always wanted to work for a retailer. “It’s been a great experience. “I never chased fame, I always wanted to be a food buyer or product developer for a retailer. “I wanted to be the person who works behind the scene but who influences what people eat and who makes a decision on which brand to choose. “But life (had other plans), It’s been an incredible journey and I am grateful to be in so many people’s homes around the world,”she says. The new season will air Thursday September 7 at 8pm on Food network DStv channel 175.