Bokone Bophirima as the North West province is known by locals is a landlocked province in South Africa. If you are looking to travel to the North West over the next few months, then we've put together a list of some of the best places in the province and what we love about them. 1. Royal Marang Hotel- Rustenberg Promises of being treated as royalty underpin the experience at the Royal Marang. It is also centrally located, close to Pilanesberg International Airport and Sun City theme park. The hotel has 68 rooms, that are spread across two double storey wings, which gives guests privacy. 64 of these rooms are delux.
Features include: Extra length beds, wifi, a mini bar that's stocked on request, coffee making facilities, air conditioning, 24-hour room service and slippers and bathrobes. The hotel carries a five star grading. The outdoor area of the Royal Marang Hotel. Photo: Hotel website  2. Bakubung Bush Lodge-Pilanesberg This lodge is operated in part by the Legacy Hotel Group. It is located inside the Pilanesberg and boasts the experience of being located in the park. The hotel has 100 rooms, one of which has wheelchair access. 
Features Include: En-suite bathroom, air-conditioning, tea/coffee making facilities, internet connectivit and doors leading to a balcony or patio with panoramic views of the park and Hippo Pool.  3. Protea Hotel by Marriott- Mahikeng The hotel is located in the busy part of the province, in the city of Mahikeng. It has 99 guest rooms that include options of deluxe and standard. The hotel is operated by the Marriott Hotel Group, which has several hotels across the world. Features include: Wifi connectivity, satellite television and air conditioning, tea/coffee making facilities, rooms that open up to a garden setting.  4. Peermont Walmont at Mmbatho Palms The hotel is described as a four-star oasis of splendour that is decorated in classic style. It has attached to it entertainment facilities in the form of an 18-hole golf course and a casino. Guests also have access to conferencing facilities and an onsite bar/restaurant. The hotel has 150 rooms that are spread between being classic, luxury and family rooms, as well as executive and presidential suites. The hotel also has one special assistance room. Features include: Air-conditioning, electronic safe, minibar stocked on request, satelite television, room service and electronic plug points. The reception area of Mmabatho Palms. Photos: Hotel website.  For activities to do in the area, visit the Royal Bafokeng Tourism page here. If you have ever stayed at these hotels, give us your review on what you enjoyed the most. 