From theme specific cruises, to LGBTIAQ+ friendly cruises, we share some of the very best cruises we've come across: RSVP Vacations, Two men kayaking
 Self-proclaimed “originator of the gay and lesbian cruise concept,” RSVP Cruises has welcomed more than 35,000 LGBT guests since its opening in 1985. Their focus is on fun, including kayaking, shopping, and after-hours activities like gay bingo, leather and underwear parties or costume contests. The Red Sea
 Explore the world, underwater! Undersea Expeditions’ exquisite scuba vacations provide gay and lesbian travelers with a unique way to see the world. Novice and experienced divers can take scuba trips to Maldives Indian Ocean, Philippines Coral Triangle, Egypt’s Red Sea and other fun destinations. Aquafest Cruises
Aquafest is one of the largest sellers of gay and lesbian group cruises in the US. Afternoon T-dances, single get-togethers and gay beach parties are just a couple organized activities. This travel company also helps schedule smaller gay and lesbian groups on world-class cruise lines. Let the fun begin! Atlantis Events, Afternoon T-Dance
Atlantis Events: Atlantis prides itself on being the largest gay and lesbian tour operator in the world, attracting 20,000 travelers each year. Olivia, Women on the beach
 Olivia has been the leader in lesbian cruises and resort vacations for the last 20 years. They charter entire ships or rent out entire resorts. Costa Rica, Whales and Sea of Cortez, Barcelona to Rome and Splendor of Scandinavia and Russia are a few of their charter cruises. An additional perk is that travelers can connect with other ladies on their boat beforehand via Olivia’s social networking site. S.S. Antoinette, Uniworld Cruises The ship is luxurious, with its decor being Brazilian marble on the walls and floors, a 19th century Venetian glass mirror, a stylish full service bar and onboard cinema. The ship carries 154 passengers and it's routes are mostly from Basel to Amsterdam. Silver Muse, Silversea Cruises A boutique ship, Silver Sea is known to be the utmost luxury. A new addition to the Silver Sea fleet, the flagship was delivered in European spring. It can accomodate 596 guests  and its size is said to reinforce a more intimate, homely feel to the ship as opposed to its larger counterparts. It has all-suite accommodations that are spacious as well. Crystal Espirit, Crystal Cruise The Crystal Espirit is a yacht that has exquisite finishes. The suites have everything from a butler service, complimentary wifi/internet access, paid laundry service and complimentary pressing. The idea behind the yacht is to create the home away from home feeling, that will leave travelers feeling well taken care of on the cruise. Sources: Cruise Critic and Travel Channel