PORT ELIZABETH – Springbok wing Raymond Rhule certainly doesn’t have to daydream about scoring a try in national colours or ask himself “when is it going to come” over and over again anymore. During the Springboks’ 37-15 victory over Argentina at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday, the man who’s used to flying down touch for the Cheetahs got his first try in the Springbok jersey. And, judging by what he said after the match, it can only be presumed that touching down in Port Elizabeth felt great. Rhule, who had a great outing in the Springboks’ Rugby Championship opener, was rewarded for his efforts when he scored the Boks’ second try that stretched their narrow lead over the Pumas. And during the post-match press conference, the 24-year-old described the moment in his fourth Test as “amazing”. “It’s an amazing feeling. In the back-three, you always think ‘When is it going to come, when is it going to come’, and today it came,” Rhule said on Saturday. And it wasn’t just Rhule who had the luxury of visiting the opposition’s in-goal area. Left wing Courtnall Skosan also scored a stunning try, in fact, he scored the Boks’ first five-pointer. So, now the only one who still needs to celebrate behind the posts is Lions fullback Andries Coetzee. Coetzee has come close to dotting the ball down beyond the whitewash a number of times, and on Saturday, he again narrowly missed out. And while Rhule said he wanted Coetzee to get his first Bok try soon, he added that every try is special, regardless of whose name it falls under on the score-sheet. “Court and I feel for Andries because he hasn’t gotten his try yet, he’s come very close a couple of times. “The nice thing is how we share each other’s joy. It’s an amazing feeling and it’s even better sharing that feeling with a great bunch of guys,” he said. Another player who enjoyed a special moment against the Argentinians is Sharks back Curwin Bosch. Any Springbok debut can be described as special, but what made the debut for Bosch, who was born in PE, even better, was the fact that he ran on to make his Test bow at home. “It was special running out here for my first Test and it being back at home,” the 20-year-old said. “I think it’s any rugby player’s dream to play for the Springboks, and I’m just happy for the opportunity.” Bosch, who can play at both flyhalf and fullback, will probably face the “what is your preferred position” question too many times to come in his young career. And when he was asked that very question after the game, he said: “At the moment, I’m still developing as a player, so for now, I just want to learn and develop my game. Whether I should play 15 or 10 – that question will be answered in future. “I’m just grateful for the opportunity that everyone’s given me.” @WynonaLouw  IOL Sport