Millennium Hotels & Resorts has announced that iconic hotel, One UN New York, will re-launch as Millennium Hilton New York One UN Plaza later this month. According to Breaking Travel News, the hotel located in the heart of the humanitarian organisation United Nation's headquarters in New York City, has a history of welcoming global pioneers, politicians and diplomats will continue to deliver its high standard under the Hilton's operation. The property is believed to be worth $68million after renovations have been completed. The 439 guest rooms, suites, meetings and event spaces, public areas and restaurant were upgraded significantly while ensuring that the architecture of the building originally designed by Kevin Roche remains. Kwek Leng Beng, chairman of Millennium & Copthorne, commented: “We are very pleased that our unique property located on the grounds of the United Nations headquarters will be managed by Hilton as Millennium Hilton New York One UN Plaza. “With the availability of premier accommodation and event space in midtown Manhattan, Millennium Hilton New York One UN Plaza will be an ideal choice for many of the Hilton loyal guests. “It is a win-win situation for both Hilton and Millennium Group. “We look forward to this expanded relationship with Hilton in North America and internationally.” Millennium Hilton New York One UN Plaza boasts spectacular views of the New York City skyline and East River, as well as being located close to several landmarks and attractions including Broadway Theatre District, Times Square, Empire State Building, Grand Central Terminal and the world-famous shopping destination, Fifth Avenue. In addition to views of the city and proximity to attractions, guests of Millennium Hilton New York One UN Plaza can also enjoy a variety of dining options. Kwek added: “With stunning skyline views, modern accommodations and amenities and a location in one of the world’s most sought-after destinations, we are confident we will exceed our guests’ expectations and further establish Millennium Hilton New York One UN Plaza as one of the city’s top hotels. “The hotel will join its sister property, Millennium Hilton New York Downtown, which is currently celebrating its 25th anniversary this year, in welcoming many of the Hilton brand’s valued guests to this dignified residential area of Midtown East.” See the original story here.