Many of us just chuck our gym sneakers in our travel bag and rush to the airport, but finding the perfect one for your adventurers is easier than it seems. The director of The Style Factor, Aseema Kazi, says putting a little more thought into your sneakers will always pay off tenfold. “You don’t need to spend hours deliberating over footwear. The point is to find the right pair of travel shoes beforehand. That way, on your trip, you won’t have to care about shoes at all.
“Many cities are designed for pedestrian exploration, and with the right footwear, you’ll find it easy to cover a lot of mileage everyday without having to worry about sore feet,” she says. When you travel, you want to have comfort and add a bit of style to your look. Kazi says there are comfortable walking shoes that “won’t leave you wanting to crop your vacation photos from ankles up”. Here are her top 3 picks: Versatility: Picture: Pinterest “Versatility is also key when you’re seeking out the right pair.
“A brand that boasts a wide variety of shapes and types of sneakers to suit all types is Nike. From lightweight to ultra trendy, Nike most definitely has it all. I love the way Nike is finding new and creative ways to update their style year after year,” she says. Kazi also recommends Converse. Hike sneakers: Picture: Saloman. If your holiday comprises of hiking trails then finding the right pair is important. 
“The right pair will help you glide down the trail with a smile on your face, while poor-quality boots will have you gritting your teeth with every footfall,” Kazi compares. 
Best hiking sneakers comprise of comfort, durability, stability, weight, warmth and water resistance.
Some of the brands to choose between are Salomon X Ultra 2 , Merrell Moab 2 Waterproof , The North Face Ultra 109 GTX , Adidas Outdoor, Terrex Fast R GTX , Keen Targhee II WP , Altra Lone Peak 3.5 and the North Face Hedgehog Fastpack GTX. Splurge: Picture: Gucci. For those who have some cash to splash then Kazi suggests a high end, classy sneakers like Gucci and Louis Vuitton. 