Leave the household chores for later, it's time to take a road trip. Many of us, including myself, end up wasting our weekends in front of the television or doing chores that we forget there is a world out there, just waiting to be explored.
Road trips, no matter how small the distance is, can help open your eyes to a world you never knew existed. It's the little things that makes it worthwhile, like admiring the fauna and flora along the road, watching the cows graze or singing your lungs out to some 80s tunes. With a road trip, the possibilities are endless. I always tell those close to me to plan road trips and venture out into unknown territory as every trip will leave a person more spellbound than the one before. In Durban, a 2 hour drive to Richard's Bay will be ideal. There one can refuel at any of the eateries on offer, visit the beach or watch the ships at the port. Along the way there are great spots to stop at, including Umfolozi Hotel and Casino. I love the Western Cape and those lucky enough to call it home can explore so many great places. My favourite is a trip from Cape Town to Langebaan. The stunning coastal town exudes beauty and calm, ideal for travellers seeking some solace. The views along the way are breathtaking, especially now that spring is around the corner. There are also great activities like game drives, kite surfing and boat trips to keep you occupied.
Cape Town also offers wine routes like Stellenbosch and Franschhoek with landscapes so good you wouldn't want to leave. The Garden Route is also equally amazing. If you in Joburg, a trip down to Hartbeespoort Dam is a must.
Hartbeespoort Dam is an hour and a half from Joburg. Situated in the North West Province of South Africa, it lies in a valley to the south of the Magaliesberg mountain range and north of the Witwatersberg mountain range.
If you staying over, which I recommend, take a drive to Sun City the next day to explore its African inspired beauty. The Valley of the Waves is bound to keep you occupied for hours. Joburgers can also take a 3 hour drive to Polokwane. On a visit to Marakele National Park, we stopped at a sunflower field Bela-Bela. It was one of the best moments of my life. Now that I have encouraged you to take that well deserved road trip this weekend, all there is left to do is grab some items, car snacks and your keys and head off to an adventure.  
clinton.moodley@inl.co.za