As South Africans stock up on charcoal, braai wood and boerewors in preparation for Heritage Month and ‘braai day’, Flight Centre has put together a list of top braai spots where you can fully appreciate the beauty of cooking in the great outdoors.
 
Wondrous Western Cape With so many magnificent mountain and ocean views, a braai in one of the Western Cape’s many scenic braai spots is never disappointing. 
 
Both Buffels Bay and Bordjiesdrif in the Cape Point area make for a great braai outing. In addition to great scenery, masses of rich flora abound in the area at this time of the year. Various antelope, ostriches, Cape Mountain Zebra and over 250 species of birds can also be found in the reserve.
 
Situated between the massive boulders on the sandy beaches of the Atlantic seaboard between Llandudno and Camp’s Bay you’ll find around 40 picnic sites, all of which make for a perfect beach braai get together.
 
Incredible North West Home to an abundance of some of the most scenic local game parks, a bush braai is a no-brainer when it comes to visiting this province. Whether it’s getting a braai going after a day of game viewing or hiking up and braaing on a hill-top, the options for a memorable bush braai experience are endless.
 
Flight Centre offer great opportunities to visit the Pilanesburg National Park which has a number of picnic spots set high upon hills which all also have braai facilities. The Fish Eagle picnic spot overlooks Mankwe dam and is one of the most popular places to enjoy mother nature at its finest.
 
Kwa-Zulu Natal With its endless stretches of beaches, warm waves and tidal pools, a beach braai in this part of the world is a must. For a spontaneous long weekend break consult a travel expert to book a stay in Kwa-Zulu Natal.
 
Situated just beyond the Breakers Hotel in Umhlanga, is probably one of the locals’ best-kept secrets – the Umhlanga Lagoon Nature Reserve. Here visitors get to experience the best of both worlds and can enjoy the magnificence of walking through the dune forest, before wading through the lagoon and onto the beach.
 
The reserve is home to over 208 bird species and one can also enjoy a glimpse of blue and grey duiker, bushbuck and other smaller mammals. The area is also teeming with water birds such as herons, fish eagles and warblers.  With so much on offer, it makes for the ideal braai spot.
 
Lovely Limpopo and Mpumalanga
Encompassing diverse terrain that comprises rugged, rocky mountains, spectacular water falls, wide bush plains and thick pine forests, the world is your oyster when it comes to tracking down a scenic braai spot in these provinces.
 
Mac Mac Pools in Mpumalanga provides the perfect waterfall-side braai spot. There are plenty of picnic sites to choose from and the pools are located by a river which forms a series of amazing natural swimming areas.
 
Bordering the city of Polokwane, the Polokwane Nature Reserve in Limpopo is another great place to see wildlife while having a braai. Home to zebra and various antelope species you can embark on a guided hiking trail before tucking into your boerie and sosaties.
 
Awesome Eastern Cape
Located around 250 kilometres south of Durban, Coffee Bay is arguably one of the most popular spots on the Wild Coast. Its wide sandy beaches, warm water and lush green hills are the perfect backdrop for a beach braai.  The town itself is also home to an eclectic mix of quirky shops and vibey restaurants and bars, making it well worth a visit.
 
With so many amazing braai spots dotted around South Africa hopefully Flight Centre has inspired you to travel and explore while celebrating this Heritage Month!