CAPE TOWN - KwaZulu-Natal is excited that a Chinese compan, Jingmen Hubei, will open two more factories in Durban, Premier Willies Mchunu announced on Monday.  “The people of this province are excited that Jingmen Hubei, a company from Hubei Province will be opening two more factories in Izimbokodweni and Umgababa, South of Durban. This is in addition to a project in Cato Ridge, where Jingmen Hubei has acquired a 60% stake in Shu Powders, a cobalt powder manufacturer,” the Premier said. According to a statement, the factories will feature a large recycling park and also expected to create up to 1 000 jobs which specialise in recycling. “These are indeed good news that will help strengthen socio-economic relations between the two provinces,” Premier Mchunu said. The Premier added that the provincial government is committed to working with Hubei Province to ensure that jobs for local communities are created. “We wish to work with Jingmen Hubei to identify opportunities for local SMMEs and black industrialists, in particular, to become major role-players in the two new factories either as suppliers or in the entire value chain of recycling.” Welcoming the delegation from Hubei Province, the Premier said the areas identified for the investment were previously ravaged by apartheid sponsored political violence which claimed 20 000 lives between 1984 and 1987 alone. “More than 500 000 families were displaced from their homes and these include people from Umbumbulu, KwaMakhutha, Malukazi, Adams Mission, Folweni, Umlazi U, Z, Q Section and surrounding areas. We are determined to bring back normality to these areas and ensure that local communities benefit from being part of BRICS,” said the Premier. The Premier said the province is keen to take advantage of bilateral relations between South Africa and other countries including the BRICS bloc. “We pay tribute to President Jacob Zuma for ensuring that we are part of the BRICS bloc. As KwaZulu-Natal, we cannot prosper in isolation. It is for these reasons we are stating unequivocally that our long-term success lies in the integration of our economy with economies of the world.” -BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE