Johannesburg - The  African National Congress (ANC) leaders in Gauteng have instructed MP Mondli Gungubele to keep quiet and not make further statements against President Jacob Zuma, despite calls from Luthuli House that Gungubele be disciplined. ANC provincial secretary Hope Papo said Gungubele was summoned to explain himself. ''After affording comrade Gungubele an opportunity to explain himself, he was advised and requested to desist from making any further public pronouncements on the matter. He accepted the advice of the POBs [provincial office bearers] and made a commitment not to make any further comments on the matter. All the issues have to be dealt with through established internal organisational mechanisms. ''The POBs further made a call to all ANC members in the province to desist from making public comments and pronouncements on matters which should be discussed and resolved internally.'' Gungubele, a former mayor of Ekurhuleni, has publicly come out in support of a motion of no confidence against Zuma. Gungubele said he has no confidence in Zuma and would vote for him to step down at next week’s motion of no confidence vote in the National Assembly. Gungubele's statement has raised the ire of the ANC caucus and coincided with outspoken MP Makhosi Khoza also speaking out. Her stance against Zuma and his leadership led to the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal instituting disciplinary charges against her. This week, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe urged Gauteng leaders to take action against Gungubele for his ''unacceptable'' behaviour. Mantashe said Parliament had a party system, and that all ANC MPs should therefore abide by the party line in Parliament. Political parties have submitted their views regarding their preferred means of voting on this particular motion — either by secret or open ballot.  National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete would make her decision regarding the “appropriate voting procedure” before the scheduled debate on August 8. African News Agency