Cape Town - Residents living near a Cape Town high school were shocked when this man whipped out his penis and allegedly started masturbating in front of the school. A witness says the man started stroking himself while peeping at girls through the school fence on Tuesday morning. The man was photographed by a shocked resident, who alerted security guards at the school. The witness says the man was looking at schoolgirls who were sitting cross-legged against a wall, which caused their dresses to ride up. He says the pupils were not even aware they were being watched by the pervert. According to the witness, the man eyed the girls, zipped down his pants, without untying his belt, and took out his penis. He says the pervert would peek at the girls, then move to the corner where he rubbed his private parts. The resident says he couldn’t believe his eyes and waited about 15 minutes to make sure before he took action. “I tried to figure out what he was doing and realised he was looking at the schoolgirls and just taking a skommel. As soon as a car would come up the street, he would put it away and walk to the corner. He did this a few times,” he said. He then notified the school security officers who chased the man up and down two streets. When they eventually caught him, he claimed he was peeing and was on his way to nearby Groote Schuur Hospital. “He shouted, saying he was not skommeling. I told him I saw him skommeling, he must not lie. I saw him do it a few times and he was looking at the children,” says the man. “It makes me sick. The security officers actually believed him and let him go.” The resident says the man ran up the road and fell over over a few times. “This should not be allowed. He should have been arrested. Who pees for 15 minutes?” The Daily Voice contacted the school for comment, and left a message with the secretary after she indicated the principal was not available. The principal did not respond to queries by Monday night. Jessica Shelver from the Western Cape Education Department said they were not aware of the incident but would immediately launch an investigation. Daily Voice