KIMBERLY - Abengoa, the international company that applies innovative technology solutions for sustainability in the energy and environmental sectors, has achieved practical completion for Xina Solar One, its third solar thermal plant in SA.
 
Xina Solar One is a 100 MW plant that uses parabolic through technology to generate renewable and sustainable and dispatchable power from the sun.The power plant features a thermal energy storage system using molten salts that can store the necessary energy for a further 5.5 hour supply, and it to assist in meeting the South African peak demand. According to Gonzalo Urquijo, Executive Chairman of Abengoa, “The completion of the Xina Solar One project in South Africa represents a firm step forward for the company and demonstrates the talent and commitment of the Abengoa team in addition to validating the trust that the market has placed in us.” Xina Solar One is located near Pofadder, in the Northern Cape Province, and is bordered to the north by Kaxu Solar One which is  another Abengoa project. Kaxu Solar One was the first power plant in operation that featured parabolic trough collector technology, a 100 MW output and 2.5 hours of thermal molten salt storage. According to Abengoa, both plants make up the largest solar platform in sub-Saharan Africa, helping South Africa meet its ongoing energy demands by supplying clean and reliable electricity. Xina Solar One features important technical improvements in its solar field and storage system which makes it a very competitive plant.
 
With the addition of Xina Solar One, Abengoa has now constructed a total of three solar thermal plants in South Africa. The other two plants are already in commercial operation, KaXu Solar One has been operating since 2015, and the 50 MW Khi Solar One plant, since the beginning of 2016. The latter was the first tower plant placed in operation in South Africa. Now that the project is operational, the plant will prevent the emission of 348,000 tons of CO2 each year and will produce clean energy to serve more than 95,000 South African households. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 