Instead, nearly three-quarters think that chivalry is dead, a survey has found. While traditional acts of courtesy like helping a woman put on her coat or pulling out a chair for her are now mostly seen as outdated, women hoped gestures of "modern chivalry" would have replaced them. Men calling when they say they will topped the list of these acts of politeness that women most want, cited by 84%. A similar number expect a partner to check they got home safely after a date. Good communication is clearly central to modern chivalry, as four in five also said they wanted to receive attentive texts during the day, and expect phones to be turned off during dates. But 73% of single women polled are being left disappointed, and said their dating experiences have made them fear chivalry is dead. Two-thirds (65%) complained of being "ghosted" by a love interest, which is when they suddenly cut off all communication with no warning. Others complained of "bread-crumbing", a new term that describes when someone contacts you only intermittently in order to keep you interested without expending much effort. Another common problem was "benching" - like being put on the bench in a sports match - where someone sidelines a love interest while they look for a better option. The survey of more than 500 women of all ages was carried out for dating site Match.com. Vicky Pavitt, of the website, said: "What the research shows is that women are starting to lose faith in modern dating. From bread-crumbing to benching, it can be easy to feel disenchanted." Other acts of courtesy women said they would like to see from a love interest included picking her up for a date, letting her use his phone when her battery runs out, and acting keen to meet her 
friends and family, which were all cited by three-quarters of those surveyed. In a sign of true Britishness, 72% said it is important he knows how she likes her tea. Meanwhile, four in 10 said that they thought it was outdated for a man to help a woman put on her coat or pull out a chair for her, while 45% said it was old-fashioned to insist on her ordering first in a restaurant. Daily Mail