This weekend I had the privilege of attending the 72nd birthday of one of the most amazing women I know. Theresa Solomon was detained and harassed all her adult life, but still she was mum and teacher to many of the Young Lions on the Cape Flats. During her speech this weekend she spoke about her experiences and amongst others she thanked the countless women who took care of her only daughter during her many arrests. When it was my turn to speak I was very emotional, however, I did manage to say the following:
 
“When I met you I was a teenager sitting at your feet and hanging on your every word. Today, I am a grown woman of forty-five and I still remain at your feet. Humbled by the way you lived your life, the pride and dignity you displayed even during the most circumstances and thankful that I got to share in some of that.”
 
Theresa Solomon was but one of those mothers who took care of me and others like me. During the 80s the women of the Cape Flats stood strong behind their little freedom fighters. Some did it on a platform when they spoke out about injustice and some just did it quietly by offering you a plate of food. 
 
I remember the first person to speak to me about Nelson Mandela was a young woman from SP, Thoraya Pandy, the first person to give me literature on feminism was a journalist call Gael Reagon, the first home I went into hiding was with an activist called Alouise Hoffmann who did more than just hide me;  she also became my mother and I became her child. 
 Another amazing woman I came across was Mrs Jean Davids who worked in the Mitchells Plain Advice office. She was unassuming and very kind. She never spoke harshly or even raised her voice at you. Unlike Auntie Veronica Simmers who had no issue setting us straight but one never felt it came from a bad place. Not to be forgotten is the countless women-aunties and Oumas who arrived minutes after your release from prison with pots of food and delicious cakes to celebrate.
 
I always thought they woke up everyday praying and believing that today is the day the kids will be released and that belief drove them to cook in preparation. Where did it all come from? Lastly, the most amazing woman I met during my time as a young revolutionary was my mother. I only realised the compromises and sacrifices she made after becoming a mother myself. Diligently waiting to see her kids at Pollsmoor Prison or enduring sleepless nights while the cops knocked down our doors at 3 am on consecutive nights for weeks on end. Hiding our banned literature under couches and pillows while no one was the wiser. Keeping secrets from my dad about our whereabouts, even though she herself never knew. But mostly for never putting me down. These mighty giants are my heroes and they just happen to be women.