Johannesburg - It will be a petrolheads’ paradise at the Kyalami Grand Prix circuit from Friday until Sunday when the WesBank SA Motoring Experience lays on an array of the latest models as well as classics of the past. A highlight of the show will be a display of supercars including the Lamborghini Aventador S Coupe, McLaren 570S, Aston Martin DB11, Mercedes-Benz AMG GTC, Audi R8, and special models from Porsche and Bentley. Besides being on static display and having their engines started now and again, some of these cars will take to the track during the three days of the show. Tickets available at iTickets.co.za cost R150 per adult, R75 for children under 18, and R10 for children under 12. For no extra charge visitors will have opportunities to experience test drives in various cars from 20 manufacturers around the circuit, either self- or professionally-driven. Some of the new vehicles making their South African debuts at the show include the Mercedes-AMG GT C 50th Edition, the new Mitsubishi Pajero Sport, and the BAIC X25 SUV, to name a few. Other drawcards include the recently-launched VW Golf R and Golf GTD, Land Rover Discovery, and updated Jaguar F-Type. Visitors will also be able to experience the capability of South Africa’s leading 4x4 vehicles on Kyalami’s offroad track. Then, for the lovers of veteran, vintage, and classic cars there will be a wide variety on display, and visitors will be able to move among the cars and engage with the enthusiastic owners. There will also be displays paying tribute to South African motorsport history with cars like the Group 1 BMW 745i, Ford Sierra XR8, Alfa Romeo GTV 3-litre, and Ford Capri Perana V8. Not just the cars will be remembered but drivers too; Sarel van der Merwe’s 50 years of racing locally and overseas will be celebrated in a display that pays tribute to the career of a true South African icon. The Mercedes-AMG Performance Tour celebrates 50 Years of performance driving at the show, where fans will have an opportunity to experience cars like the AMG GT S, AMG GT R, AMG GT C and the E 63 S sedan in hot laps by the AMG Driving Academy team. There will be dedicated Gautrain shuttle services to and from the Festival via the Gautrain Midrand Station.Show times are 10am-7pm on Friday, 9am-8pm on Saturday, and 9am-6pm on Sunday. For more information visit www.safestivalofmotoring.com Drive360