August is national women’s month. A time to celebrate women. To acknowledge our achievements and strengths. To uplift and inspire each other. One such woman is Jessica Mole. Mole, the owner and designer of Jessica Anne clothing range. As a young entrepreneur, Mole wants to contribute to the uplifting of women through the personal styling workshops she’s hosting this month. . “Our workshops will celebrate who we are as individuals. We all have different roles and take on responsibilities and it’s great to take some ‘me time’ every now and then” says Mole.
She adds that as a woman, it can be quite an overwhelming task choosing clothing items for your closet. “I create clothes for women who are looking for beautiful, contemporary clothing that also have a classic element to them. I give you the tools and show you how to wear clothes in a way that is flattering to your body shape. As an experienced stylist I understand how a garment should be made and how it should fall on your body in order to be flattering” says Mole about her clothing range. We speak to Mole answers a few questions about her clothing range and the workshops she’s hosting. How would you describe your collection and what was the inspiration for the clothing range?
My collection is a mixture of classic silhouettes with fun, quality fabric that’s breathable. My vision behind making clothes is for women to feel amazing when they wear them. I focus on creating clothes that are timeless and also work for different body types. What are the challenges you face as a designer and entrepreneur?
Starting a business is often a ‘one man show’ and as an entrepreneur you're often required to wear many hats which is tough and character testing, sometimes even lonely. Although, the joy of achieving a goal that leads to a dream is one of the most satisfying things. I’ve learned to avoid that fear of failure and try my best to learn from my mistakes. What advice can you offer women on what she should have in her wardrobe?
Always have the basics. Basic, classic clothes are key in any wardrobe because they are timeless and can be worn on many occasions. Basics include black tailored pants, black skinny jeans, dark wash denims, white collared shirts, a tailored blazer, a denim jacket etc. Once you have a good few basic items you can build from them, dress them up or down and add trendy items that add personality to a look. What does Women's Month mean to you and the brand?
Women’s month is one of my favorite months of the year because I think women need to be celebrated. Celebrating women is something that’s close to my heart because I know what it’s like to look in the mirror and not feel good about myself. I have learned that inner beauty really is important and it starts with you. Healthy living through relationships, eating well, meditating and spending time that’s good for one’s soul. In my opinion outer beauty is really just a overflow of what is happening on the inside. That said, it’s as important to look after your outer appearance because that’s how people perceive you, which reflects who you are to them in many ways. What would you like to achieve through your personal styling workshops?
I want women to feel beautiful about themselves, to walk out the door in the morning and feel confident in who they are. It’s an amazing feat to feel comfortable in one’s skin and I hope to help women get on the right path towards that! How does the workshop incorporate the South African woman who comes in all different shapes and sizes?
I’m a firm believer that every woman has a unique body type. In the workshop you will learn what to wear for your unique body type and how to wear it. I think as a woman you know how hard it is to put an outfit together that works for your body type and that you feel comfortable in. Also, what do you wear when. When should you wear formal attire etc. How to do your hair and makeup and what accessories one should have. We discuss all of this and give practical examples with you. * Mole hosted her first workshop in Johannesburg on Women’s Day and she will be hosting another workshop in Cape Town on Saturday August 26. The workshop covers the following: Practical and individual wardrobe advice. Hair and make-up tutorials. Manicures. Breakfast, tea/coffee and of course a little champagne. As well as a gift from Jessica Anne’s store including an information pack. Visit the website for further details at www.jessica-anne.co.za