Cintron Pink Polo, for the first time since its inception in 2009, will be hosted on 4 November by an all-girl dynamic duo - Mishka Patel and Sechaba G. The captivating and incredibly beautiful combo will keep guests entertained all day. Dressed in fabulous and feminine floral Casper Bosman gowns, beautified by Sisley make up and Tosca hair, their aim is to celebrate and honour those affected by breast cancer. READ:Hailey Baldwin's partnership with Adidas reflects her style
Mishka Patel, SABC 2 Pasella presenter, attended Cintron Pink Polo two years ago when cancer changed her life forever. “My mother passed away from stage four lung cancer in September 2015 and I attended the Cintron Pink Polo Event that year, in remembrance of her. To be selected as MC for the 2017 event is an honour and an achievement I know she would have been proud of.” 
“We often forget about the relatives of cancer patients, and how they are affected by the disease,” comments Sechaba G, KFM 94.5 presenter who was introduced to Cintron Pink Polo in 2016 interviewing breast cancer survivors on her afternoon show. “Cintron Pink Polo 2017 is a celebration that brings special emphasis to Breast Cancer Awareness and all touched by it.”  A fashion collection of note by Bloemfontein-born couture king, Casper Bosman, will showcase his bold and elegant creations. “Fashion should always be linked to a cause, otherwise it is fleeting. I have been personally touched by breast cancer, with my grandmother diagnosed with the disease. Cintron Pink Polo is synonymous with fashion and I am delighted to be involved with this event that has such a worthy purpose.” Unmatched by any other, the highly commended #CintronPinkPolo will be hosted on South Africa’s leading wine- and polo domain; the immaculate Val de Vie Estate.
The event celebrates survivors of breast cancer and their inspirational stories of hope, healing and triumph. READ:Durban Fashion Fair Day 1 menswear highlights Families can enjoy the Pink Food Truck Fair area with a selection of artisanal drinks, gourmet food and sweet delicacies on blankets and chairs in the summer sun. Polo Pavilion tickets offer front row seats to the spectacular fashion show, pop-up store delights and unique food and drink services in the spacious lounge area, while keeping an eye on the excitement taking place on the luscious polo greens. VIP’s can look forward to a specialised butler service in an opulent setting with delectable canapés and premium cocktails curated by Campari and Cintron, rubbing shoulders and shaking hands with A-list celebrities, while appreciating the breath-taking views of the majestic surroundings.  Private, VIP lounges are available for groups of 20 guests or more that allows for a day out in the picturesque winelands with friends or colleagues, celebrating in the Valley of Life.