Houston - The historic flooding that
Tropical Storm Harvey unleashed on Houston will likely worsen as
federal engineers release water from overflowing reservoirs to
keep it from jumping dams and surging uncontrollably into the
homes they protect, officials said on Monday. Some 30 000 residents of the nation's fourth-largest city
were expected to be left temporarily homeless by Harvey, which
became the most powerful hurricane to strike Texas in more than
50 years when it came ashore on Friday near Corpus Christi,
about 220 miles (354 km) south of Houston. Stunned families surveyed the wreckage of destroyed homes
along the nearby coast and roads that were not flooded were
clogged with debris. Death estimates vary, but at least two
people have been confirmed killed by the storm. Harvey was expected to remain over the state's Gulf Coast
for the next few days, dropping a year's worth of rain in about
a week, with threats of flooding extending into neighboring
Louisiana. In scenes evoking the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New
Orleans in 2005, police and Coast Guard teams have rescued at
least 2,000 people so far, plucking many from rooftops by
helicopter, as they urged the hundreds believed to be marooned
in flooded houses to hang towels or sheets outside to alert
rescuers. Thousands of members of the National Guard, as well as state
and local police were rushing in helicopters, boats and trucks
to rescue people before waters rise again, with another 15
inches to 25 inches (38-64 cm) of rain expected in the coming
days. "The goal is rescue. That's the major focus for today,"
Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner told reporters. Harvey's center was 90 miles (148 km) south-southwest of
Houston on Monday afternoon and forecast to arc slowly toward
the city through Wednesday, with the worst floods expected later
that day and on Thursday. Schools and office buildings were closed throughout in the
metropolitan area, home to 6.8 million people, on Monday as
chest-high water filled some neighborhoods in the low-lying
city. Numerous refiners shut operations, likely for weeks, in the
nation's refining and petrochemical hub. The US Army Corps of Engineers said Monday that it was
releasing water from the nearby Addicks and Barker reservoirs
into Buffalo Bayou, the primary body of water running through
Houston. Officials warned that would lead to more flooding. "The more they release it could go up and it could create
even additional problems," Turner warned. The release was
necessary to prevent an uncontrolled surge of water, which
Turner said "would be exponentially worse." Torrential rain also hit areas more than 150 miles (240 km)
away, swelling rivers upstream and causing a surge that was
heading toward the Houston area, where numerous rivers and
streams already have been breached. Dave Holom, 44, manager of Big Tex Tree Nurseries, was one
of many civilians who joined in the rescue effort on Monday. "We can fit a lot of people in the back of this truck and it
is tall enough off the ground to get safely through high water,"
Holom said as he prepared to drive his 24-foot (7.3 m) long
vehicle into a flooded neighborhood.  'NOT COMPLAINING, WE'RE ALIVE' About 5 500 people were in shelters as of Monday morning,
city officials said, with FEMA Administrator Brock Long
forecasting that as more than 30,000 people would eventually are
expected to be placed temporarily in shelters. Many area residents were left in limbo, wondering what
remained of their flooded homes. Regina Costilla, 48, said she and her 16-year-old son had
been rescued from their home by a good Samaritan with a boat.
She sat and worried until she was reunited with her husband and
large dog, who had been left behind because they didn't fit into
the boat. "I'm not complaining, we're alive," said Costilla. "When I
saw the forecast of the storm I said I'll be happy if we get out
with our lives" Houston did not order an evacuation due to concerns about
people being stranded on city highways now consumed by floods,
Turner said. FEMA's Long on Monday did not question the decision, saying
the "evacuation of the city of Houston could take days, days,
literally days." Texas Governor Greg Abbott, who had suggested on Friday that
people leave the area, on Monday told "CBS This Morning" that
"the time for making that determination has passed, and
(there's) no need to for us to relitigate that issue right now."  TRUMP VISIT US President Donald Trump plans to go to Texas on Tuesday
to survey the damage, a White House spokeswoman said on Sunday.
On Monday he approved an emergency declaration for
Louisiana. Trump, facing the biggest US natural disaster since he
took office in January, signed a disaster proclamation for Texas
on Friday, triggering federal relief efforts. Almost half of the US refining capacity is in the Gulf
region. Shutdowns extended across the coast, including Exxon
Mobil's facility in Baytown, the nation's second largest
refinery. About 13 percent of daily US capacity was offline as
of Monday morning. The outages will limit the availability of US gasoline and
other refined products and push prices higher, analysts said.
Gasoline futures rose as much as 7 percent on Monday. Damages are not likely to be as extensive as Katrina, which
killed 1 800 people in and around New Orleans, or Sandy, which
hit New York in 2012, said a spokeswoman for Hannover Re, one of
the world’s largest reinsurers. Those caused $80 billion and $36
billion in insured losses, respectively. Reuters