David Beckham has spent the last six days putting together a 4,000-piece LEGO Disney castle for his six-year-old daughter Harper, and finally finished in the early hours of Tuesday morning. The retired footballer started constructing a Disney castle out of more than 4,000 plastic bricks last Wednesday for Harper, six, and he finally managed to complete the structure in the early hours of this morning. David took to Instagram to show off a picture of the finished product, writing: "1am done... Someone's gonna have a nice surprise in the morning zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz (sic)" 1am done. Someone's gonna have a nice surprise in the morning 👸 zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz ❤️ A post shared by David Beckham (@davidbeckham) on Aug 15, 2017 at 1:02am PDT The star last shared a picture on his Instagram page when he started the building work six days ago, admitting he was "excited" about making the plastic structure. He wrote: "Page 1 of the Disney castle , 4000 pieces 490 pages of instructions I look confused but I'm so excited (sic)" Page 1 of the Disney castle , 4000 pieces 490 pages of instructions I look confused but I'm so excited 🤓🙈😆 A post shared by David Beckham (@davidbeckham) on Aug 8, 2017 at 9:10pm PDT But David, 42, hasn't been working solidly on the project for a full six days as on Thursday he and wife Victoria Beckham, 43, treated their kids, Brooklyn, 18, Romeo, 14, Cruz, 12, and Harper, to a day on the 'Modern Family' set. The Beckhams were lucky enough to meet one of the show's biggest stars, Jesse Tyler Ferguson - who plays Mitchell Pritchett in the ABC sitcom - for a picture. Victoria shared the photograph of her family on the set and added the caption: "Dunphy's are out,the Beckham's moved in.The new modern family! #DavidDumphy #mitchstolemypose @jessetyler @davidbeckham X VB (sic)" Jesse thanked the family for their visit and while he insisted to fans that the Beckham clan will not be making a guest appearance on the show anytime soon, he picked out a role David could take on. He added: "Thank you all for coming to visit the Modern Family set today! We loved having you all!!! EDIT: the family was only visiting the set, not shooting an episode. Although I think David could be Lily's new soccer coach (sic)"