Orlando Pirates have already announced that Manyisa is on his way to the African Champions. Independent Media sources confirmed that Sundowns are negotiating a transfer fee with Kaizer Chiefs regarding the services of Lebese. “Sundowns are discussing  personal terms with Oupa. That’s why the club hasn’t made any official announcement," a source close to the deal who spoke on condition of anonymity said. It is believed the two clubs  also want to do a swap deal in Oupa’s transfer. Sundowns' Kudakwashe Mahachi, who is on loan at Lamontville Golden Arrows, is on Pirates' radar. The player has apparently refused to leave Arrows too join Pirates. Manyisa is already at Chloorkop. Lebese has endured a frustrating time since Steve Komphela got to Chiefs. “The boy has already indicated to Chiefs he isn't happy and he wants a new challenge," said another source. "Chiefs and Sundowns have to reach an agreement so he can leave. Sundowns has been chasing this boy for a while.”    Lebese has been missing for two weeks in row at Chiefs matches. Despite fans voting for him to start at the Carling Black Label Champions Cup last week when Chiefs, Lebese was not on the pitch. Club spokerperson Vina Maphosa defended Lebese's absence: “He was injured in the Black Label. That’s why he didn’t play. We even announced that publicly.” Lebese was once again conspicuous by his absence on Saturday when Amakhosi lost 1-0 to Chippa United in East London in the Premier’s Cup. “We didn’t travel with all of our players to East London. Check our line up. Nobody has told me about Lebese talking to Sundowns. I don’t know (anything) about that,” Maphosa elaborated. Chiefs won't have a problem replacing Lebese though. They recently signed Dumsani Zuma, who operated on both wings when he came on for Chiefs at the weekend. Philani Zulu, who has been used as left-back since he has arrived at Amakhosi, can also play as winger. And there is also Edmore Chirambadare, who won the club's Most Improved Player award. Sundowns see Lebese as a proper replacement for Keagan Dolly, who left the club in January to pursue his career in France where he is playing for Montpellier. Sundowns spokeperson Thulani Thuswa said he could not comment on a player still contracted to another club. But he did admit they were talking to Manyisa. The Star   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 