There’s no sign of the floral trend abating when it comes to decor, writes Marchelle Abrahams. The decor world is a fickle space, even more so when it comes to colour trends. Recently Kansai Plascon revealed its latest annual colour forecast just in time for spring, with four colours presented. “The colour stories for this year were all inspired by a mixing of diverse elements filtered through local sensibility, so they’re curated to South African lifestyle and taste,” said Plascon colour expert Claire Bond. The colour palette for the upcoming season seems to be a celebration of bold yet natural shades. One of the colour stories presented was Exotic Euphoria - a palette of jungle-inspired brights set against the backdrop of lush natural hues. “The overall feeling is a little wild and overgrown, and it’s perfect to create living spaces that feel connected and natural, but energetic at the same time,” said Bond. One theme that we’ve seen a resurgence of is floral-inspired prints and pastel shades. And big decor brands are following through by combining sought-after colours with popular styles and flower power. Spring fresh One such retailer that’s going big with the floral theme is Mr Price Home. Their Spring Fresh Inspiration palette combines earthy greens with crisp whites to create a calming interior environment. Get the look: Turn your bedroom into a relaxed oasis with white bedding and layer with throws and cushions in muted tones. Potted plants are natural accessories for any room, so speak to your local nursery about which type would best suit the location of your room. Also, consider one that takes the least amount of maintenance. For a quirky touch of Boho charm, add Mr P Home’s Bamboo Basket Hanging Shade (R799). Tropic thunder An outdoor shower can be an almost magical experience, and with SA’s sweltering temperatures, homeowners are taking inspiration from tropical parts of the world to create an outdoor oasis. Tile Africa has three tips to create the perfect outdoor shower: 1. Don’t skimp on flooring Use stepping stones or railway sleepers to create a pathway between the room and the outdoor shower, and consider going all-out with the flooring inside the shower itself. Think striking white marble with brass fittings, or waterproof and practical wood-look ceramic tiles for a durable and more rustic solution. 2. Tropical-inspired natural screening Consider putting the time and effort into growing “green walls”, as a way to demarcate your shower area and provide privacy. There are dozens of fast-growing plants with a neat growing habit that can be used to create a division in no time. 3. Accessories Exposure to the elements means you’ll have to come up with a good way to keep your shower products safe. A couple of shelves recessed into a concrete wall or a selection of weatherproof containers should do the trick. Just make sure it’s a storage solution that matches the aesthetic of your outdoor shower and won’t look cluttered or messy. Welcome to the jungle Updating your living area with scatter cushions and a splash of wallpaper can do wonders to an otherwise drab room. Even better, it’s cheaper on your pocket! The key is to invest in pieces that not only add a pop of colour, but can also be easily implemented into your current decor scheme. Get the look: Family-owned fabric specialist U&G Fabrics have two floral-themed collections under their Aura Lifestyle brand. Their Aztec Jungle Collection scatter cushions (from R690, excl VAT) are muted green and purple floral prints set against a white background - perfect for adding that feminine touch to dark woods and tones. Cape Town based Hertex are the experts in bespoke wall coverings. Their newest wallpaper range, called Ashford Tropics, is inspired by the colourful shades of lush and enticing botanicals. Prices are on request. Useful links:  