Our part of the world is known for bold colours and print, and really good weather. In preparation for the good times that lie ahead, we're giving you some tips on how to get the perfect summer dress and its accessories. Fashion and Lifestyle writer Karishma Dipa gives us some trends on what's hot this season and how to perfect the look. 1.Embroidery One of the latest trends to emerge off the runways and summer collections is the trend of embroidery. If you're looking for a gorgeous dress, do not be afraid to look at embroidered ones too. Karishma says: 
One of the biggest trends this summer is embroidery. It has been on the runways at fashion weeks around the world including those in New York, London, Paris and Milan.
The intricate detailing gives an ordinary outfit a casual edge and acts as an accessory without actually wearing any.
This trend works perfectly on a dress and is an effortless way to inject glamour into a look.
This is ideal for travelling as at has multiple purposes which means it can be worn at any time of the day, for any occasion and will allow you to pack lightly as you won't have to load your suitcase with heavy accessories. Rebecca Taylor 2017 Spring Summer Women's lookbook presentation. Photo: Pinterest 2. Maxi dresses Karishma says: A maxi dress is flattering for all types of figures and is an comfortable enough to wear during the day, while it can also take you into the evening by just adding a few accessories. This type of dress is also an ideal way to beat the heat as it is light but also covers the body to avoid sunburn. 3. White dresses Whether you're headed to a lunch date or out to the movies you won't go wrong with a white dress. Karishma says: You can never go wrong with a simple white dress. It suits all types of skin tones and by choosing the right cut and style, women of all sizes can rock one.
It is also a fun way to play with fashion because a simple white dress can be used as a canvas to dress up a look by adding all types of accessories and shoes.