Taylor Swift has announced her new album 'Reputation' will be released on November 10 and the first single from the upcoming LP will be unveiled to the world on Thursday night. The 'Shake It Off' hitmaker has been teasing fans with posts of snakes on her Instagram account over the last couple of days but has now revealed what it is all in aid of - her upcoming LP called 'Reputation'. Sharing the news on her Instagram account, she uploaded a picture of a sign that read: "Reputation - the new album for Taylor Swift. November 10." A post shared by Taylor Swift (@taylorswift) on Aug 23, 2017 at 9:39am PDT She also posted a series of other pictures, revealing her first single off the new album would be released on Thursday. The news unsurprisingly thrilled her fans who took to social media to share their excitement about the new music. One wrote: "Taylor Swift is DONE playing around. I cannot wait for this. I've never felt so alive (sic)" Whilst another shared: "NEW @taylorswift13 ALBUM NOVEMBER 10TH ASGDJDKH THIS IS NOT A DRILL (sic)" It comes after a source claimed Taylor was "overhauling her image" with her new tracks. One source said: "The single is very different. It goes from very soft, to hard, to soft again. Taylor is overhauling her image." Whilst another insider added: "It doesn't sound like anything she's done before. It's a little unusual. She plays around with new sounds each album cycle, but this one in particular stands out." A third shared: "She's being very secretive about it, but it's going to be a really good one." And now we know Taylor has some new music in the pipeline, it is likely that it has been travelling under lock and key as the singer's pal and collaborator Ed Sheeran previously revealed the lengths Taylor goes to to keep her music out of the public domain until it is officially released. He shared previously: "She would never send new songs, no. I hear them but has to be with her. I remember when I did a song with her for her album, I was in San Francisco and they sent someone with a locked briefcase with an iPad and one song on it and they flew San Francisco and played the song I've done with her and asked if I like it and I was like 'yeah' and they took it back, that's how I hear it."