* This story has been updated. Johannesburg - The Department of International Relations and Co-operation says that no decision has been made on whether Zimbabwe's First Lady Grace Mugabe will be granted diplomatic immunity despite reports emerging that she will be. Earlier on Friday Reuters quoted a government source as saying that there was "no way" Mugabe, 52, would be arrested for the alleged assault, but that Pretoria expected the granting of diplomatic immunity to be challenged in court. When asked whether Mugabe will be granted diplomatic immunity as reports allege, Dirco spokesperson Nelson Kgwete said a decision has yet to made. Kgwete said he knew nothing about reports suggesting otherwise. Also read: #GraceMugabe 'will be granted diplomatic immunity' Meanwhile, SAPS had received no official word from the government on the status of the diplomatic immunity request, police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo told The Associated Press on Friday. "We are waiting in anticipation as well," Naidoo said. "People are attacking us left, right and centre but we can't do anything." A storm of controversy has surrounded Mugabe with calls for her to be arrested. On Thursday the victim of the attack, Gabrielle Engels, said she had been offered a money to drop the case. The model laid criminal charges against Mugabe this week, after claiming Mugabe assaulted her when she found her with her sons at a flat in Sandton. Engels said Mugabe allegedly hit her with an electric plug. Images of her showing a gash on her head have been circulating on social media since the beginning of the week. She said she wanted justice and called for Mugabe not be granted immunity. Earlier in the week, SAPS said Zimbabwean officials would be applying for diplomatic immunity as Mugabe was in the country to attend the SADC Summit. Her husband President Robert Mugabe arrived in Pretoria on Wednesday night for the 37th SADC Heads of State and Government Summit, amid the controversy surrounding his wife. He reportedly arrived earlier than scheduled so he could intervene in his wife’s matter. Politics Hub and AP