Harare - Zimbabwe’s first lady Grace Mugabe on Sunday allegedly beat up a young Johannesburg woman who was with her two sons in Sandton. She had returned to South Africa on Saturday after a week in Johannesburg having having treatment for her injured foot. But she didn’t stay home long. According to Zimbabwe news site Bulawayo 24, and various tweets going viral around Johannesburg and Harare, it has been claimed that Grace Mugabe attacked a young woman called Gaby, with an extension cord after finding her with her sons, Robert Jnr, 25,  and Chatunga 21. Both sons were allegedly unsteady on their feet after a long party. They are supposed to be studying in Johannesburg but are well known at various top night spots in Sandton. Recently Robert Mugabe Jnr, and Chatunga Bellarmine,  were evicted from their flat in Rivonia after they got caught up in revelry which saw a security guard injured. Repairs were needed to the R70 000 a month rented flat. The young woman allegedly beaten up by Mugabe, claims she has wounds on her head and that the first lady attacked her while guards looked on. The young woman, Gaby, posted a series of tweets about the alleged assault:‏  She split my head open in 3 places. With an extension cord and used the plug to hit me. https://t.co/WNf2Y1C5uK — Gah-bee (@DaNamesGaby) August 13, 2017     I DON'T live with them! https://t.co/tUm8GawJO8 — Gah-bee (@DaNamesGaby) August 14, 2017     Please don't come here with your ignorance. Check the hotel cameras. Since you know them personally please find out your damn self! https://t.co/luYBBcVKBW — Gah-bee (@DaNamesGaby) August 14, 2017     What is a girl compared to a women beating you and 10+ body guards standing back leaving her to do this shit. https://t.co/bOpZ6vdBdX — Gah-bee (@DaNamesGaby) August 14, 2017   Grace Mugabe did not attend the youth rally held by her husband in Gwanda, southern Zimbabwe on Saturday. But sources in Harare claim she stayed a night in Harare and then returned to attend to her sons who regularly attend the Taboo nightclub in Sandton where sources say they spend a “great deal” of money on champagne. Robert Jnr is supposed to be studying at the University of Johannesburg. Independent Foreign Service