Idols SA contestant Ashern Madlopha was mocked by the judges during an audition. The SA Injabulo Anti-Bulling Project says that it is precisely these attitudes and behaviours that augments depression, anxiety and suicide rates in our transgender communities. The SA Injabulo Anti-Bulling Project is deeply disturbed and strongly condemns the transphobia perpetuated by the Idols SA towards Ashern Madlopha. Watch the audition here. The actions of the judges perpetuate the prejudice, hostility, humiliation and hatred trans* people experience on daily basis. Furthermore, it undermines tireless work of many organisations fighting against transphobia. Most importantly, the judges’ actions undermine and violates Ashern’s right to human dignity and the right to freedom from inhumane and/or degrading treatment by people as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa (Act 108 of 1996). According to the World Health Organisation(WHO), South Africa has the eighth highest suicide rate in the world, with 8 000 South Africans dying by suicide, yearly. The South African Depression and Anxiety Group (SADAG) reports that 23 000 people in South Africa die by suicide every day, while 460 people attempt suicide every 24 hours. Considering the discrimination, exclusion and trauma experienced by trans* people, these rates are likely to be significantly higher among transgender communities in comparison to the general public. It is precisely the attitudes and behaviour of the Idols SA judges and presenter that augments depression, anxiety and suicide rates in our transgender communities. IABP views transphobia and the silence surrounding it as a direct manifestation of the heteronormative patriarchal society we live in, pervaded with gender binaries, violence and authoritarianisms. We need to decolonise and depathologise trans* identities. IABP demands that Idols SA, the judges and presenter publicly and privately apologise to Ashern Madlopha. As media personalities, whom many young children admire, Idols SA needs to take responsibility for their actions.   This is bullying people take their own lives because of such @somizi you should know better. #TransphobiaOnIdolsSA #EndBullying https://t.co/6GkZddDT9m  — INJABULO PROJECTS (@Injabulo_IABP) August 1, 2017   We cannot tolerate anyone mocking another person because of their gender identity. We have a social responsibility to protect trans* people. We need everyone in our communities and society to take a stand against transphobia, commit to actively address gender stereotypes, and treat everyone with love, dignity and respect irrespective of gender identity. Siyaphambili! Forward Ever! *used to include all transgender, non-binary, and gender nonconforming identities ** Injabulo Anti-Bullying Project (IABP) is the catalyst of the organisation and it aims to eliminate bullying of learners in high schools. *** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.