Delta Air Lines’ (NYSE: DAL) latest innovative test program at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) allows customers to video chat from the airport with a specialist – a first for U.S. airlines.
 
Five interactive digital screens with individual receivers are now featured at the redesigned Delta Sky Assist so customers can connect face-to-face with Delta specialists. Customers simply pick up a receiver, initiate the live video chat with one touch on the screen and are on their way to anything from changing a flight to sharing feedback.
 
“More and more people are choosing video chat to connect in their everyday lives, so we wanted to bring that channel to Delta customers,” said Charisse Evans, Vice President – Reservations Sales and Customer Care. “We have the best specialists in the business – and now, they’ll be able to deliver customer solutions in an even more personal, face-to-face way.”
 
The Delta Sky Assist pilot project is the next phase in the Delta Reservations team’s mission to listen, care and connect in the platforms customers prefer. Delta already encourages customers to contact Reservations via social platforms like Twitter and Facebook, in addition to email and the telephone.
 
Furthering Delta’s commitment to implementing innovative solutions that are available to all customers, one of the video screens is located on the wall at a height to better serve customers with disabilities. The design concept also features a keypad option for engagement via text, which is the direct result of feedback from Delta’s Advisory Board on Disabilities, a group comprised of Delta customers with disabilities and thought leaders in the accessibility space.
 
This is just the latest example of Delta leading the industry with innovative enhancements to the customer experience, following the recent pilot projects at DCA that allow eligible customers to enter Delta Sky Club and board the aircraft using only their fingerprints.
Over the past year, Delta has led the industry on a number of customer solutions with a redesigned gate and boarding experience, biometric-based self-service bag drop, RFID baggage handling, real-time bag tracking via the Fly Delta mobile app, more efficient and high-tech automated screening lanes and a groundbreaking app that helps Delta pilots avoid turbulence for a more comfortable flight.
 
Delta will review the video chat test to understand if it creates a better engagement opportunity for the customer, while capturing employee feedback to drive improvements. This feedback will drive additional innovative customer touch points.