To prevent the perpetuation of the generational transmission of domestic violence, the South African Department of Women should focus on working collaboratively with NGOs and the private sector. There should also be strong collaborations with other departments. Examples of how to work with other departments include: The Department of Education: Design curricula that teaches learners about gender equality. The Department of Higher Education and Training: Provide visible opportunities for men who are studying gender studies and studies on violence against women and children; this would remove the perception that gender studies is women-centred only. The Department of Justice: Insist that the files for cases of domestic violence should be dealt with as separate and not be filed with other assault or murder cases. The Department of Health: Insist that injuries caused by domestic violence must be treated as such; nurses and doctors should be trained on how to refer victims of domestic violence to relevant offices for counselling, and should report it to the police. The Department of Housing: In the year 2014, the Minister of Housing, Lindiwe Sisulu, suggested a law amendment to ensure that if a couple in a free government house were to divorce, the house goes to the wife, as the wife is usually responsible for the children. The Minister of Housing also elaborated that women over the age of 40 living in poverty may apply to receive free government houses. This law will address the findings of scholars in domestic violence who argue that financially dependent women stay in abusive relationships because of shelter. The Department of Arts and Culture: Work closely with traditional leaders in an attempt to end cultural customs which aim at exploiting women. This ministry could run workshops, trainings, and campaigns from already spotted provinces or areas where such cultures exist. The Department of Social Development: In 2014, this ministry launched a free emergency landline, open 24 hours and seven days a week. It offers counselling to survivors and/ or victims of gender-based violence. This is an initiative aiming at addressing the alarming increase of violence against women. It must also create opportunities for skills development for unemployed women who are receiving government social grants, so that they become skilled and employable. This will assist in reducing the increasing number of unemployed women receiving social grants in South Africa. The Department of Police: Must intervene in domestic violence cases, and facilitate the prosecution of crimes committed in a domestic context.  It must launch its own Victim Empowerment Centre in all nine provinces which aims at educating communities about ways in which to report domestic violence, how to go about protecting themselves, and where counselling is available. It may also hold workshops at schools and in women’s circles on how to apply for a protection order for both women and children. The above lessons should serve to provide information to the South Africa government about a sorely needed comprehensive domestic violence programme, the implementation of which is vital in communities. Given the seriousness of this problem, empowering women through education and training on how to deal with domestic violence issues should be regarded as a priority and not just another marketing activity. * Dr Nokuthula Mazibuko is from the Department of Sociology at the University of South Africa ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Pretoria News