No matter how learned, intellectual, civilised or educated we are, we are still monsters. Let us also get something clear, it is not the number of monsters that’s increasing, it’s the level of awareness that’s increasing. The growing levels of awareness are not a true reflection of how deep-rooted gender-based violence is in our communities. Compounding this is the fact that we haven’t dedicated a lot of resources to uprooting these challenges. Let’s take the government for example: it has an entire department dedicated to addressing issues of gender-based violence. But it focuses mainly on women. When are we going to deal with the perpetrators directly? To me it is nonsensical and very much ineffective to create platforms that are essentially equipping women, girls and children with skills and ways to deal with an abusive man and how to deal with the aftermath of the violence ushered by the monsters called “men”. Men are the problem. Let us deal with them. Let us create a portfolio that deals with men and all their issues. Let us drive more resources toward this plague of violent and abusive men. There are issues women can successfully challenge, but being told how to protect themselves from men is not effective. I will tell you what those issues are: When patriarchy doesn’t know its borders and affects a woman’s progress, women can rise up and build their own companies. The political sphere that still doesn’t regard women in high esteem, that’s a challenge women can fight from within their party structures. The business environment that undermines a woman before she can even prove she is qualified and capable. That too, women can challenge. But violence? How does a woman protect herself from such? Why can’t men be taught how to stop themselves? The misdirected masculinity, the short tempers that lead to raising hands at women and children, that is a man’s issue. When a man feels emasculated, that is a man’s issue; the inferior feeling, that’s a man’s issue. We need to start dealing with the root problem. We have normalised abuse. It happens, it does not get reported. It becomes gossip around the neighbourhood. It will happen again, and the victim will just grin and bear it. She will get told: “Are you sure you want to go through the exhausting processes of the courts?” or “surely you and your man can sort these things out?” Ironically, the ill-advice often comes from male police officers. Looking at the social ills that women faced on a day-to-day basis a few years ago, I realised that most rapists were men; that gender-based violence was ushered-in by men. Most drug abusers were men. Women were getting killed by men; they were assaulted daily by men. That is when I realised that starting my movement, the Young Men Movement (YMM), could not be more urgent. We need to breed a new generation of men. We have to raise boys differently. We do not need organisations such as People Opposing Women Abuse (Powa), we need People Opposing Abusive Men (Poam). It is the men who need fixing, not women. We can create a new generation of men. But we can achieve that if the monsters and sick men in our country are our focus to eradicate gender-based violence. Let’s focus on building a new society of boys to men.  * Kabelo Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. Email: kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter: @KabeloJay; Facebook: Kabelo Chabalala ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Star