The late Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington has been recorded as a "rock star musician" on his death certificate. As well as stating the impressive job title to describe the late singer's occupation, the papers confirmed details of the Linkin Park frontman's passing, including the fact that he tragically committed suicide using a belt to hang himself. Other details on the certificate showed the singer died at 9:08 AM in his home at his Palos Verdes Estate in California on July 20. Medical officials previously revealed a "partially empty bottle of alcohol" had been found in the 41-year-old star's room, but this was not listed as a contributing factor on his death certificate. Chester was laid to rest four days ago at an intimate funeral with just a few hundred people in attendance. A 20-foot mural of Chester has also been painted on the back of the new Sherman Oaks branch of the rock-themed pizza restaurant Rock'n Pies in Los Angles. The artwork is visible from the on-ramp to the typically clogged northbound section of the 101 freeway on Coldwater Canyon Avenue, south of Riverside Drive. "I'd been seeing that big blank wall from the 101 and thought it would be good for something," artist Jonas Never told Variety in comments posted Tuesday. "When I heard Chester died, I immediately thought of that wall because I knew some of the band members lived in the Valley. I just texted Jim and offered to do it for free because it was the right thing to do." Shout out to @theseventhletter  family for this mural in LA. ・・・ Beautiful painting of Chester by @never1959 @_kryst_ @mr_kub_ Proud to see this happen! @chesterbe @linkinpark 🙏 #ChesterBennington #LinkinPark #Family A post shared by Mike Shinoda (@m_shinoda) on Jul 30, 2017 at 8:25am PDT The 'In The End' singer's family wanted a private memorial for the music icon and mourners were reportedly given wristbands and an access pass to enter the ceremony. On Wednesday, Linkin Park thanked Coldplay's Chris Martin for his "beautiful" rendition of 'Crawling' at their concert on Tuesday. The singer performed a piano solo version of their hit - released in 2000 - in New Jersey and Chester's bandmate, Mike Shinoda, shared a video of the emotional recital on Instagram. He captioned the clip: "Thank you @coldplay. It sounded beautiful.(sic)"  He added: "This is to everybody who misses someone you know. This is for our whole community of musicians."