This weekend sees the start of the 2017 Rugby Championship season - weeks of scrumming, tries, and line-outs as muscled men fight over an oval-shaped ball.
Previously called the Tri-Nations, the name changed after Argentina’s Pumas joined the other Southern Hemisphere rugby legends  - New Zealand’s All Blacks, Australia’s Wallabies and South Africa’s Springboks – in the battle for top honours.
It would be great to have tickets to all the matches (preferably field-side and within spitting distance of the haka), but sadly not everyone can make it to the stadiums. The good news is you can turn your lounge into the perfect venue for a Rugby Championship 2017 watch party. So gather your team and get ready to scrum. Here’s what you need: A big, BIG TV
Your cellphone or laptop just won’t cut it. The excitement of the game is best viewed on a big screen. With full HD. And because SuperSport has the rights to showing the series locally, you’ll need a DStv decoder and subscription too.   
 
A fridge for the beer
You won’t want to miss a minute of the action so why not hire a bar fridge and hook it up in the lounge. Some might say it’s lazy. Others call it efficient. Check out Teljoy where you can rent-to-own a pretty decent bar fridge.
  
Get comfortable
Depending on how many people you plan on inviting, you might need an extra couch. Or get the pillows out of the bedroom and throw them on the floor. Keep in mind, you’re likely to be spending most of your time on your feet, screaming at the players anyway. Food, glorious food 
Whatever you make, keep it simple. It’s unlikely your friends will expect a gourmet feast. So snacks and easy-to-prepare meals are best. You don’t have to stick to the traditional braai and boerie rolls, either. 
Sliders also make for great finger food. But don’t limit yourself – sliders are just miniature versions of other dishes. Also, if it’s smaller, you pack on fewer calories. It’s basically science or something. Check out Pinterest for endless ideas on all kinds of yummy treats.
. The appropriate attire
Nothing says fan quite like wearing your team’s colours. Oh, and blasting on a vuvuzela.
 
A good Wi-Fi connection and a smartphone
A big part of any social event these days is the conversation it sparks on social media. To join in, you need a good internet connection and a smartphone. And really, if it’s not posted on Facebook, did the party happen? Exactly.