Cara Delevingne celebrated her 25th birthday in Mexico with her "incredible friends" including Georgia May Jagger, Suki Waterhouse, Alice Dellal and Jaime Winstone. The 'Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets' actress reached the milestone birthday on Saturday (12.08.17) and partied in style with pals including Suki Waterhouse, Georgia May Jagger, Jaime Winstone, Lady Mary Charteris, Adwoa Aboah, Alice Dellal, and Lady Clara Paget, and her older sisters Poppy and Chloe Delevingne. Cara shared a picture of the group on board a yacht on Instagram and wrote: "I am so lucky to have such incredible friends, thank you for inspiring and supporting me ladies #Sexico." I am so lucky to have such incredible friends, thank you for inspiring and supporting me ladies #Sexico 🇲🇽🇲🇽🇲🇽 A post shared by Cara Delevingne (@caradelevingne) on Aug 11, 2017 at 7:03am PDT And she later shared a Boomerang clip of herself posing in a green and yellow robe and added: "What else do you need? Sun, fun, good vibes, friends and @Havaianas! @havaianaseurope #havaianas #MadeofBrazilianSummer #GoodVibes #PureSpontaneity #DeliciousHappiness #spon (sic)" What else do you need? Sun, fun, good vibes, friends and @Havaianas! @havaianaseurope #havaianas #MadeofBrazilianSummer #GoodVibes #PureSpontaneity #DeliciousHappiness #spon A post shared by Cara Delevingne (@caradelevingne) on Aug 11, 2017 at 3:34pm PDT The group enjoyed a sky dive, and even donned T-shirts bearing pictures of Cara for a trip to the beach. Model Alice shared a topless photo with her pal after the leap from a plane, with the 'Paper Towns' star having "best come-down ever" written on her arms, and Alice having "so high" on hers. The supermodel's friends used their social media pages to share images from the trip, with their pal a happy birthday and thank her for funding the lavish break and their adventures in Mexico. Georgia May wrote: "HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE THIS AMAZING BEAUTIFUL SPECIAL WOMAN XXXX love you so much. "THANKYOU for continuously blowing my mind and sharing this trip of a life time with me, treasured memories I shall cherish forever xxxxx "Thank you so much for being the most amazing human and friend and for bringing all these incredible strong women together to support each other. "Also thank you so much for making it possible for us to swim in an underwater cave, with whale sharks and go on a crazy ATV jungle ride all within 24 hours. I love you soooo much. Welcome to a quarter century. (sic)" HAPPY BIRTHDAY CARA!!! @caradelevingne Thank you so much for being the most amazing human and friend and for bringing all these incredible strong women together to support each other. Also thank you so much for making it possible for us to swim in an underwater cave, with whale sharks and go on a crazy ATV jungle ride all within 24 hours. I love you soooo much. Welcome to a quarter century 🌝🏝💚 A post shared by Georgia May Jagger (@georgiamayjagger) on Aug 12, 2017 at 8:04am PDT Socialite and DJ Mary wrote: "appy barfday beautiful Dellybean. "Thank you for bringing us all together and making us all feel so loved and confident. You know how much you mean to me and to all of us. Always and forever.(sic)" British model Clara paid tribute to her "talented bonkers monkey" friend. She shared: "Love you to the moon via Mexico and back again. Words don't cut it but thank you for bringing together the most incredible group of strong women for this wild adventure, Sky diving, swimming with whale sharks, racing ATV bikes through the jungle, raving and non stop laughter, not a moment wasted. "Beautiful inside and out, blessed to have shared this earth with you for a quarter of a century, here's to the future, love you immensely my mini.(sic)" Yoga teacher Christabel Reed posted: "HAPPY BIRTHDAY MY BEAUTIFUL BABY. "Thank you for being the funnest, most sweet, inspiring woman and best friend watching you grow into the strong and independent woman you are today has been the greatest pleasure, you just get more and more amazing each day. "I love you more than words can say little monkey so grateful to be travelling through this life with you.(sic)"