Spa-Francorchamps, Belgium - Brazilian driver Felipe Massa has been cleared to compete in this weekend's Belgian Grand Prix after he missed the previous race in Hungary at the end of July due to feeling dizzy during practice. His Williams Formula One team said the 36-year-old had been given the all-clear by the FIA medical delegate following tests at the circuit on Thursday, a standard procedure following injury or sickness. Massa went to hospital after Friday practice in Budapest but was then passed fit to continue on Saturday, when he experienced more dizziness. The Brazilian was replaced for qualifying and the race by British reserve Paul di Resta. The 7km Spa circuit is the longest, and one of the fastest, tracks on the calendar and this year's cars will be going quicker through the corners and subjecting the drivers to even more G-forces than before. Massa suffered near-fatal head injuries after being hit on the helmet by bouncing debris during qualifying at the Hungarian Grand Prix in 2009. The then-Ferrari driver spent several days in hospital in an induced coma after that incident. Grid penalty for Vandoorne McLaren's Stoffel Vandoorne will have a 35-place grid penalty for his home Belgian Grand Prix on Sunday due to power unit changes. McLaren's engine partner Honda confirmed that the rookie would collect the penalty, that will leave him either last on the grid or starting from the pit lane, after an update aimed at improving reliability. "Unfortunately Stoffel will receive a grid penalty at his home grand prix, but it is important for us to introduce updates as soon as they are ready," said Honda's Formula One head Yusuke Hasegawa. Drivers are penalised for exceeding their allocation of power units, and component parts, for the season. Vandoorne, who will be the first Belgian to compete in his home race since Jerome d'Ambrosio in 2011, has scored one point so far this season with the Honda power unit lacking performance and reliability. He said he was still looking forward to the weekend and racing in front of his home fans for the first time in Formula One. "The penalties were kind of inevitable with the issues we had earlier this season. Every new part we bring to the car now is giving us grid penalties and it's a shame to start the weekend like that. "But with the weather here, there's maybe a lot of opportunities possible." McLaren announced on Wednesday that the 25-year-old would be continuing with them next season. His Spanish team-mate Fernando Alonso, a double world champion, is still considering his options. Honda said Alonso, who finished sixth in the previous race in Hungary, would not face any grid penalties this weekend. Reuters