JOHANNESBURG- The Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr. Rob Davies says the development of infrastructure is an essential and absolutely fundamental catalyst for regional integration for increased inter-regional trade and for industrialisation in Africa. Minister Davies was speaking during the opening the two-day Infrastructure Africa Business Forum that started in Sandton. “As the government of South Africa we categorically stated that the development of infrastructure is an essential and absolutely fundamental catalyst for regional integration for increased inter-regional trade and for industrialisation in Africa. Therefore, infrastructure develop lies in the very heart of our efforts to promote high levels inclusive growth and development throughout the continent,” said Minister Davies. Minister Davies added there was a huge deficit in the infrastructure that is necessary to support high levels of inter-regional trade that connects African countries to one another. “As a continent Africa has an infrastructure deficit estimated at $93 billion per annum for the next 20 years. Colonialism has createdinfrastructure that was only geared towards the continent fulfilling its role as mere producer and exporter of primary commodities that were taken to other people’s economies.  There is a huge amount of catch-up that we need to undergo as a continent in order to achieve regional integration,” said Minister Davies. He explained that in addition to the infrastructure deficit, Africa was losing over 40% of its competitiveness as a continent due to the absence of infrastructure or inefficiency of established infrastructure. “The critical role of infrastructure development in achieving integration, growth and development in Africa can never be overemphasised. Through Infrastructure development we can provide roads, rail, ports, energy transmission lines and ICT connectivity that are all necessary to facilitate economic development.  Also, infrastructure can be an important counter-cyclical tool because by infrastructure development we can to generate economic activity even if some of the other forms of economic activities are suffering from the negative waves",  added Minister Davies. He stated that regional integration has three legs, namely free trade areas, infrastructure development and cooperation which are essential in promoting industrial development across the continent. “We need to partner to build the required infrastructure and the real capability that will assist all of us to build our countries. Adequate, effective, affordable and well-maintained infrastructure is an essential tool for Africa’s growth and development", stressed Minister Davies. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE