Wonder kid Jordan Spieth is on the verge of breaking Tiger’s record and become the youngest to sweep the career Grand Slam, and the PGA Championship is hot on the heels of his Claret Jug mugging of Matt Kuchar. Imphepho (look it up) shows big names, so count Jordan in (10/1), Hideki Matsuyama at 11/1, Dustin Johnson at 12/1, Rickie Fowler at 14/1, Phil Mickelson and our Ernie on their 100th major at 60/1 and 400/1 (after early round-one woes) respectively. Oh, Rory McIlroy is at 6/1 on one of his favourite tracks in the world. He usually kills it out here, but utshani ushintshile (the grass is meaner) - it’s not all Bent - and other changes have taken place. Yes, these Bones do know a bit of haute culture, kids. Anyhoo... the odds should alter after round one, so use that Xploring gadget to make your weekend picks. Mzansi diski is back in action, with that Top 8 shandiz - sponsored by those yellow mobile guys that chow our data. Wits vs Arrows, Cape Town City take on Polokwane koKaapa, Chiefs vs Supersport United at The Moses, and Sundowns against Maritzburg. Let’s hope for some KZN flava in the last four. The bones see the Burra (Pietermaritzburg) team in with a shout; maybe a draw or, extra time at least. Hallelujah, the British buffet is back on tonight, with a banger in the Gooners against Leicester, with Arsenal a solid bet at home. Other major match-ups include Chelsea at 3/10 at home to Burnley, Watford 11/2 vs Liverpool 6/10, Brighton 11/1 vs Man City 4/10, Man United vs West Ham and Newcastle vs Tottenham. There is always one opening weekend upset, so beware the promotion emotion pushing a Brighton or a Toon Army to dizzy heights. Oh, there is already an El Clasico to get the Spanish season going. On top of the one they had in Miami in pre-season, and the 17 they will probably have during the campaign Yerr, can Madrid and Barcelona play anyone else, maybe? No wonder Neymar did a runner to the Eiffel Tower!  The Currie Cup is still on the go, and some teams have to juggle selection after playing on Women’s Day. Strange one, that. The unbeaten, defending champions and free-scoring Cheetahs play Griquas in die Vrystaat, with both coming off midweek wins. Griquas upset Western Problems, and Cheetahs ran amok against the toothless Pumas, to retaining their lead at the top of the log - with a game in hand. Expect Cheetahs to continue on their merry way, and dip on the spread of - points for Cheetahs as Griquas will be spent. Province vs Bulls should be a real treat and may be a close call, but look for the home side to dala what they must. Lions have their Super players back (but no Bokke) and they host the Sharks, who need the points. Ellis Park will be a library compared to last week, but it should be a close game for those who turn up. Finally, we hope Isaac Makwala and our dreamer Wayde have each collected a medal by the time you read this. Shout-out to Caster Semenya for the 1 500m medal and best of luck to her for the 800m this weekend! It would be apt in Women’s month, so get that gold, girl! The Mercury