LONDON – To celebrate its 20th anniversary, AfricaCom, a media and telecoms (TMT) event is launching a brand-new technology arena. Located in the recently expanded and soon to be opened, CTICC wing, this entire exhibition hall will be dedicated to tech innovation and Africa’s journey towards the fourth industrial revolution. 
 
The arena will be an innovation Stage featuring visionary insights on future tech trends that also includes energetic discussions on the Internet of Things (IoT), Smart Cities, Big Data, Fintech, Blockchain, E-Health and Artificial Intelligence. Add in wearable tech, drones, a host of augmented and virtual reality gadgets, games and applications etc. 
 
It will be home to more than 100 technology focused exhibitors as well as the centrepiece of the arena, AfricaCom 20/20.  This is a brand-new show floor feature dedicated to accelerating Africa’s digital transformation. Also on display in the new arena will be demo pods which will enable delegates (over 13 000 are expected this year), to interact with next generation technologies, to help shape their own thoughts and possibilities of what is to come and what might be. 
 
Underpinning the importance of this event and this stream, Microsoft has signed on as a lead sponsor. 
 
Asif Valley, Cloud Development Lead of Microsoft South Africa, commented on the company’s involvement in this year’s event saying: “Digital transformation is critically important to the success of businesses across Africa, and Microsoft is focused on helping our customers successfully achieve their digital business transformation. Powered by our people and our mission to empower every person and every organisation on the planet to achieve more, we have been driving cloud innovation and growth across Africa for a number years. “We also recently announced a significant investment into data centres in the African region, which expands on our existing investments aimed at: unleashing innovation to solve some of the biggest problems facing humanity; building and developing small businesses; and alleviating unemployment and poverty on our continent”. - BUSINESS REPORT