Cape Town - A Cape Flats mom says her unborn baby is a little superhero after surviving a bullet. Aneesa Davids, 32, is the pregnant woman who was shot and injured during a cash-in-transit heist in Parow last week. Last Tuesday, two brazen robbers ambushed and robbed a cash van in Voortrekker Road. Several shots were fired by the suspects and in the process a female pedestrian was wounded. That woman was Aneesa, who was rushed to hospital after she was shot in the back. The single mom from Tafelsig, Mitchells Plain, says she is lucky to be alive after the bullet missed her spine and heart by centimetres. She was on her way to work in Parow and had no idea a shootout was taking place in the vicinity. “I just got off the bus and was walking towards Voortrekker Road. I didn’t hear any gunshots but felt something hard hit against by back," she says. “I walked for a short distance when I felt a sudden loss of breath and I put my hand to my chest. I then saw blood on my hand and realised I’d been shot. “I notified the people walking in front of me to tell my colleagues what had happened and all I thought about was my baby, my parents and my 13-year-old daughter back at home.” Davids, who was 22 weeks pregnant at the time, says she remained calm until her colleagues rushed to her aid. “The single bullet hit me in the left side of my back and exited the front of my left breast. “I was rushed to the nearby hospital where doctors stabilised me and my baby and to my surprise, the baby was fine. “Fortunately that day it was cold and raining and I wore thick layered clothing.” When the Daily Voice visited Davids at her home in Ural Street on Thursday, the wound dressing had been removed and she had just learnt the gender of her unborn baby. “I was at the doctor today for a check-up and I heard it’s a boy. I call him my Superman because he is a fighter; look, he is already dodging bullets,” she says. Aneesa is due to give birth in November. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk says the suspects fled with an undisclosed amount of cash and are yet to be arrested. Daily Voice