DURBAN – The Sharks will look to grow Curwin Bosch at flyhalf in the Currie Cup after a Super Rugby campaign in which he alternated between fullback and No 10. The Sharks play Griquas in Durban on Friday, and backline coach Sean Everett said they would be looking for continuity in the flyhalf position after Bosch played there against the Pumas last week at Kings Park, a game won 29-0 by the home side. ‘’During Super Rugby, we were disrupted with Curwin going to the SA Under-20 side, and Inny Radebe was injured,” Everett said. “I think Curwin can get better and better playing in the same position each week.” The Sharks have a talented player in Garth April who is equally at home at fullback (he has started a number of times at 10), and it would seem that he will be the fullback while Bosch settles in at 10. “I am happy with the backline and how we finished off some nice tries in the second half against the Pumas,” Everett said. “The centres (Jeremy Ward and Lukhanyo Am) were good, and the back-three got into the game in the second half. “A guy like Kobus van Wyk deserves a lot of credit for his consistency this season,” Everett said of the wing. “His work-rate off the ball is really good, he has had an excellent season.” The Sharks were pleased that they kept the Pumas tryless, but they will do well to repeat that feat against a Griquas side that have scored more than 40 points in the their matches so far, high-scoring losses to the Bulls (Kimberley) and the Lions (Ellis Park). “Griquas have beaten us a few times in the early rounds of the Currie Cup,” Everett smiled. “We know about them! They have had a good year, and made the final of the SuperSport Rugby Challenge. They can score tries, we know that.” Friday’s match marks the beginning of a curious three-match binge over the course of a week. The Sharks play the Bulls next Wednesday in Pretoria, then the Lions next Saturday... such is the Currie Cup in this day and age. “All we can do is focus on Griquas, because you don’t know what injuries you can pick up,” Everett said. “We will have a look at how we come out of that game, but the squad system will no doubt be called into action at some stage.” The Mercury  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 