This is mainly due to the fact that markets in rural towns are dominated by poor households who mostly depend on a combination of subsistence agriculture, social grants and remittances from family members working in the cities. For many rural families, social grants constitute the only source of income, and act as an immediate buffer against poverty and malnutrition. Unfortunately, the current chaos facing the South Africa social grant system is posing a major threat to the rural economy. The chaos is as a result of the Department of Social Development and the South African Social Security Agency’s (Sassa's) failure to put systems in place to ensure that social grants beneficiaries receive their payments on time. What is more concerning about this issues is that both the department and the agency were fully aware of this potential chaos last year already when they failed to secure a credible alternative arrangement with any key players to guarantee a smooth handover at the end of March, when the contract with Cash Paymaster Services ends. Read also: Township entrepreneurs hope for glory The social grant system supports about 17 million people of which most of them live in rural areas. Any disruption in the payment system will have serious implications on them and will most likely lead to precarious social unrest. Social grants play an important role towards mitigating the spread of poverty in the country’s rural communities. Most importantly, social grants facilitate the creation of markets for rural businesses. It creates opportunities for small retailers in small rural towns and townships to prosper and to some extent to create rural employment. Social grants beneficiaries spend billions of rands per annum on groceries and clothing and they represent almost  40 percent of consumer spending in South Africa. This is what has attracted retailers like Boxer stores and Shoprite’s Usave stores to these areas. From an agricultural perspective, social grants facilitate a rapidly growing trend of smallholder farmer’s markets. Some of these farmers during the social grants payment days pitch up their stands close to where payment usually takes place and decorate them with a variety of produce, while others drive around on their bakkies full of fresh fruits and vegetables. This is what makes rural economy thrive, and social grants play a crucial role in this regard. Any delay in paying out social grants will certain regress rural economy and will potentially lead to undesirable chaos. In light this and in the fear of what could happen in the event were social grants are not paid out, the Minister of Social Development and the president himself are both on record, promising South Africans, particularly social grants beneficiaries, that there will be no hurdle come April 1, when social grants must be paid out. One hopes that will indeed be so.  Hamlet Hlomendlini is a senior economist at Agri SA. BUSINESS REPORT