SA Football Association president Danny Jordaan has hailed Amajita’s qualification for the Fifa Under-20 World Cup as a “major achievement”. The SA Under-20 will play in the World Cup in South Korea in May this year after beating Sudan 3-1 in the final Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations group match at the Heroes National Stadium in Lusaka, Zambia on Sunday. Amajita have set a date with hosts Zambia in what has become a regional derby between the two sides. The semi-final match will take place on Wednesday. “This was a major achievement and the boys have made the country proud. After our Under-17 side qualified for the World Cup last year, it is this type of progress that has seen our Vision 2022 take immediate shape,” Jordaan, who flew to Zambia on Saturday to give the boys moral support, said in a statement on Sunday. “The semis against Zambia will be a typical final before the final, and the boys must look forward to this game.” Goals by Phakamani Mahlambi, Grant Margeman and Sibongakonke Mbatha gave Amajita a good win in a tight game. While Sudan’s lone goal was scored by Khaled Osman, the Falcons of Jediane gave Amajita a run for their money and matched them man for man, especially in the first half. Mahlambi netted a beautiful goal after Singh had done all the work on the left flank, but Osman responded 10 minutes later after South Africa’s defence had gone to sleep as the two teams went to halftime deadlocked at 1-1. In the second half, coach Thabo Senong made shrewd substitutions, bringing in Kobamelo Kodisang for Liam Jordan in the 52th minute and Itumeleng Shopane for the tiring Phakamani Mahlambi in the 58th, and the changes immediately changed the complexion of the game. Margeman netted a beauty of a goal in the 59th minute after some world-class attacking from Kodisang, before Mbatha put some icing on the cake late in the game to send Amajita into wild celebrations. Senong believes that the Sudanese put up a great fight, but the Safa Vision 2022 was the bigger picture on the day, which will see them grace the South Korea World Cup stage. “Well done to Sudan, but we had to win today. This win, qualifying for the Afcon semi-finals and the Fifa Under-20 World Cup, is an important part in the development of South African football,” he said. “We are not happy that we have conceded five goals in the group stages, and this is not normal for us. Once again we will go back to the drawing board to prepare and correct our errors for the semis.” South Africa will now play tournament hosts in the first semi-final on Wednesday at National Heroes Stadium in Lusaka, Zambia.