 Greece, the perfect destination to end our magical honeymoon❤️ I've heard that Santorini is considered the most romantic of the Greek islands and is known to seduce you the minute you set foot onto the island. This has undoubtedly proven to be true as soon as you enter this piece of paradise. The whitewashed villages, pretty blue domed churches, welcoming and extremely friendly locals and views to die for makes it impossible not to fall in love with this heavenly island. With a population of around 14 000 and an almost non-existent crime rate, we were able to explore the island entirely on our own. One of the most fascinating facts that I found kind of amusing especially being South African is that there are only 7 police with 2 police vehicles that can be found on the island. This alone puts one's mind at ease and totally stress free. Our amazing journey got so much more exciting when we decided to hire a little car and explore the island all by ourselves. A 600cc Smart Car with a top speed of 80mph, a map, a drop dead gorgeous hunk, lots of Greek snacks and decadent treats, the latest Greek music and tons of laughter, I was in store for an adventure of a lifetime. Some of the key places visited worth mentioning was firstly a place called Fira, one of the most popular places on the island with a vibey atmosphere boasting tons of sidewalk cafes, shoppers paradise, spas and stunning restaurants where one can enjoy breathtaking views of the volcanoes and an even more awesome nightlife. Just when I thought Croatia had the best sunsets I was mesmerized to see a Santorini sunset. Sunsets in Santorini are also known for being some of the most stunningly beautiful in the world. Oia's Byzantine Castle ruins is one of the best places to view the sunset and we were blessed to have seen this indescribable feeling. The Red and Black beach are also a must without forgetting to take in more of the breathtaking views at Caldera.One word to describe Santorini-MAGICALOne cannot visit Greece without visiting the historical city of Athens. Athens is the historical capital of Europe with a long history, dating from the first settlement in the Neolithic Age. A large part of the town's historic center has been converted into a 3km pedestrian zone leading to major archaeological sites which leaves one fascinated by the magnitude of these structures. One cannot visit Greece without bringing back an "Evil Eye" be it in a form of jewellery, key rings etc which is found anywhere and everywhere. This is used widely in Greece as well as other Mediterranean countries which symbolizes protection from any negativity and safe guarding against any bad fortune or mishaps. Last but certainly not least are the extremely decadent Greek desserts made from phyllo pastry, honey, walnuts, butter, almonds etc which is impossible not to feast on resulting in me spending lots of quality time and having the longest conversations with my cellulite There is no better place that we could have chosen than Greece to end our amazing journey celebrating Life and Love and there is no better person that I could have chosen to share this life changing experience with, than my Amazing husband.