It is estimated that 10 000 journalists from 1 000 China-based media houses and international news agencies are in the capital to cover the Chinese opening of parliament, commonly referred to as the Two Sessions. So named because of the meetings which mark the start of the two-week political marathon: the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, held last Friday, followed by the National People’s Congress, on Sunday. The names are a mouthful, especially for the wide-eyed and jet-lagged journalists from 29 African countries who jostled for space atpacked press conferences and braved long queues in the biting cold for a seat in the press gallery of the impressive Great Hall of the People with 3 000 of our colleagues. President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiang, and other politicians attended the formalities. Movie and kung fu star Jackie Chan, who was drafted by Beijing a few years ago to help craft an image of unity between Hong Kong and mainland China, also took the stage. How much he has done for anti-mainland sentiments, is anyone's guess. But he was a hit with journalists. We, the African journalists, are hosted by NGO China Africa Press Centre for a 10-month programme to live and experience China firsthand and to share our experiences with our fellow countrymen. We will attend summits, lectures at Renmin University, think-tanks, visit big companies and explore different parts of the country. Our first lesson - a baptism of fire so to speak  - was a glimpse of the workings of China’s parliament and trying to understand the complexities of its politics. High on the agenda was continued reform and realising the “Chinese dream”: the recovery from Mao Zedong’s policies  and working to maintain  the country’s status as the second largest economy in the world in this turbulent economic climate. China, run by the Communist Party who refer to its political system as a social democracy and whose people have embraced capitalism, is enough to make a novice’s head spin. Professor of the School of International Studies at Renmin University, Wang Yiwei terms it “Chinalization”,  China’s ability to garner information and systems from the world and give it Chinese characteristics whether it be Marxism or Baidu (China’s answer to Google). “It is to take something and make it work for China”, he explains. There are invaluable lessons to be learnt from China. Africa has done well out of China’s economic rise. Here in Africa, and particularly South Africa, China has become a key trading and investment partner. As the Chinese increase their footprint in Africa and South Africa it is essential, that we journalists, deepen and broaden our understanding of China and its impact on the country and continent. Far too often the China-Africa narrative is determined and defined by Western media. While there are exceptions, the media frequently frames China as the neo-colonial aggressor and Africa as a victim. There is so much more than these embedded stereotypes and the mere labelling of China as pariah or saviour. With an open mind and willingness to learn and engage this often misundertood and maligned country, this is an ideal opportunity to learn more about China and Sino-African ties, and to gain a fresh perspective by immersing ourselves in Eastern culture. The challenge for us, journalists from Angola, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Congo Republic, DRC, Gabon, Ghana,  Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Liberia, Rwanda, Malawi, Mauritius, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan,Tanzania, Togo, Uganda,  Zambia and Zimbabwe is to gather the truth, tell China’s stories and let the readers make up their own minds. Melanie Peters is the Live Editor of  Weekend Argus. She is on a 10-month scholarship with the China Africa Press Centre. Instagram: mels_chinese_takeout