Cape Town – It's  one day to go till Independent Media Online (IOL) reveals its brand new look! While it is a work in progress, the completely redesigned website will be revealed to you, our readers, on Thursday.  The new design, which is in line with 21st Century reporting and new media behaviour, will allow you a richer insight into Independent Media’s unique digital offering. Using the latest technology, IOL’s desktop and mobile sites will be one of the fastest news platforms in South Africa, keeping readers on top of breaking news and hot topics of the day. Browsing our site will be easier and so will sharing our fabulous content. IOL will continue to work with multimedia journalists from Independent Media's newsrooms across the country, including The Star, Pretoria News, The Cape Times, Cape Argus, Daily Voice, The Mercury, Daily News, Isolezwe, Saturday and Sunday Argus, The Sunday Tribune and The Sunday Independent, to bring you top quality journalism enhanced by high quality video and other multimedia content. Besides the latest news, our reporting will also bring you the best of business news via Business Report, the best sport coverage and analysis via IOL Sport and the latest motoring news for car fanatics with IOL Motoring. Readers who wish to follow the latest trends can do so with our IOL Lifestyle team. If you love to travel and see the world, we’ve got you covered – and if you’re into the latest gossip in Mzansi, then we’re the first to bring you the scoop.Our reporters are also briefed to bring you the best, in-depth and unique coverage of special events, like the World Economic Forum, elections, the Cape Town International Jazz Festival, and a number of lifestyle and fashion showsIn short, IOL is your one-stop content destination for the best South Africa and the world has to offer. But, that’s not all. Because we’re digital and social media first, our content is planned to hit your inbox, and timeline in a way that is engaging and shareable. We want you to be a part of our journey, so tell us what you want, and we will be there for you, telling your stories..  "We believe that this new look will allow our online community to have a very informative and comprehensive experience with our digital first, print best reporting. We look to showing off our new site,” says IOL Editor Riana Howa. So get ready for a brand new IOL.   * Speak to us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram  