Hong Kong, or ‘Honkers’ as it’s affectionately known, has a great deal to offer both business and leisure travellers, striking the perfect balance between a bustling commercial hub and the quintessential South East Asian cultural experience. Cathay Pacific, which calls Hong Kong its home, shares some must-see travel hotspots that are worth a visit, whether you’re planning a quick stopover in Hong Kong hoping to see as much as possible in just a day or two, or if you’re planning to stay a while in one of the world’s most eclectic and impressive destinations.  Let the view from the top of Victoria Peak take your breath away. Weary travellers hoping to escape the high-paced energy of Hong Kong’s city streets should head for a dash for Victoria Peak, Hong Kong’s most famous lookout point. It’s also a great spot to watch the sun set over the horizon and, of course, the perfect place to catch the Symphony of Lights. You can reach the Peak by tram along a 120-year-old railway, or hike up Old Peak Road – but this can be quite strenuous, especially in Hong Kong’s sweltering heat.  Eat your fill of dim sum at Tim Ho Wan. If you’re in West Kowloon and don’t mind queuing, be sure to make a stop at Tim Ho Wan, the world’s cheapest three-Michelin Star restaurant and home of Hong Kong’s best dim sum. West Kowloon is food heaven for anyone looking to satisfy an Asian cuisine craving. Foodies can also dine at Tin Lung Heen for Michelin Star Cantonese cuisine or, if you’re not up for the wait, you can also opt for one of the many other restaurants, food stalls and takeaways on offer nearby.  Take a walk through Central, Hong Kong’s business district. Located in Tsim Sha Tsui of Victoria Park, Central is home to several international business hubs and consulates, and some of the world’s most magnificent modern architecture. If you’re travelling for business and would like to experience this beautiful city up close, all you have to do it step outside and admire the view. At least 40 of these iconic buildings are part of Hong Kong’s Symphony of Lights, a dazzling light show that takes place every night in Victoria Harbour. Grab a sundowner and stick around until after sunset to enjoy this stunning display.  Grab a few keepsakes from the night market. Temple Street Night Market comes alive as soon as the sun goes down, with traders and even entertainers showing up to show off their wares and offer a performance or two. This street bazaar is named after the Tin Hau Temple located at the heart of this bustling street, and is one of the main attractions for locals and tourists alike. You can get your hands on anything from trinkets and tea ware to cheap electronics and tantalising local cuisine served hot and fresh.  Say hi to the Big Buddha. The Tian Tan Buddha statue, as it’s formally known, sits next to the Po Lin Monastery in Lantau Island and is an impressive 34 metres high. The statue faces North and looks over mainland China, with one hand raised to deliver blessings across the region. You can climb the 268 steps to take a closer look at the remarkable Chinese landmark, or simply take the Ngong Ping cable car up the side if you’re slightly short on time. There is also a popular vegetarian restaurant where you could have a meal while enjoying the scenery.  Visit a 300-year old temple – you may want to slow down for this one. There comes a time in every traveller’s journey when you need to slow down and really appreciate your surroundings, and the Che Kung Temple in Sha Tin is the perfect place to do this. While the temple tends to be quite crowded around Chinese New Year, there is always a peaceful atmosphere to help calm the nerves of its visitors. Take a stroll through this centuries-old spiritual structure and admire the colourfully-decorated walls as well as the large statue of Che Kung, who was a General during the Southern Song Dynasty and considered a god of protection among worshippers.  Take the kids to Enchanted Garden. For a Disneyland experience on-the-go, swing by the popular Enchanted Garden restaurant for a delicious meal and the chance to meet your children’s favourite Disney characters – be sure to book a table in advance, as Enchanted gets very busy. Enjoy the international buffet served in a Victorian-style ambience, while Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck keep the kids occupied, and take photos with the characters and your whole family. 