“With a secure tent structure able to withstand winds up to 100km per hour, confirmed by AFI’s appointed structural engineer, the wind gaining momentum at 58 km per hour went against our priority of protecting people. Presented with a severe safety risk and prioritising the safety of all involved, an announcement was made for guests, models, designers and crew to vacate the premises on The Meadway, “ AFI said in a statement on Friday morning. The remaining shows were then scheduled to take place on Friday evening and Saturday, however, that was not to be the case as the wind persisted. On Friday afternoon when I arrived just after 5pm, the marquee was vibrating from the wind and soon after that an announcement was made to evacuate the venue. After taking a year’s hiatus, the event organisers were keen on staging the three-day event during summer rather than the winter months as they have done previously. Tlale, in partnership with Courvoisier® Cognac, presented his show titled “Let’s Play Dress Up” at the Cape Town Club which was attended by the fashion elite. Renowned for his showmanship, the night defied all the conventional moulds with Tlale swapping a runway for an installation of models draped on windowpanes, plinths, and tables. The scene, which resembled Paris’ fearless and decadent Golden Age and a mood alluded that to the joie de vivre associated with Courvoisier®, culminated in a grand finale when 45 models lead guests to the club’s private basement for an after party of celebrations. Male models walked in sexy jockey underwear and ready-to-wear runway looks, while the women wore sexy lingerie and Tlale’s signature separates which included shirts, skirts and fitted dresses. Leading the celebrations was former Miss SA, Tatum Keshwar, who was chosen as the face of this season’s campaign – shot by fashion photographer Sean Laurénz earlier yesterday afternoon – and the star that closed Tlale’s show. Other personalities in attendance included internationally renowned stylist, Jenke Ahmed Tailly, businesswoman Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe, award-winning rap artist Anatii, SA’s talk show queen Felicia Mabuza-Suttle and the much admired style icon K Naomi, to name a few. The collection will travel to Paris where it will be introduced to Europe later this year. The rest of the remaining shows scheduled to take place this afternoon were cancelled and MBFWCT was postponed to a later date.