Johannesburg - The agricultural sector has survived the worst of the drought that gripped South Africa in the past three years.And now, after recent rains, the sector is favourably positioned in parts of the country.&nbsp;Paul Makube, senior Agricultural Economist at FNB Business spells out how the drought and subsequent recovery has impacted four basic breakfast foods, namely; eggs, maize, dairy and bread.Dairy:This industry has seen pastures improving, thereby reducing the frequency for the need for irrigation which translates to lower electricity costs. In addition, supply outlook for grain crops has improved and the subsequent decline in prices from the second half of 2017 indicates a reduction in food manufacturing cost is eminent.Producer prices are expected to approach the long-term average share of approximately 37 percent of the retail prices. We should see stable to firmer demand with new marketing strategies to reach more consumers in the country, the rebound in the industry following a devastating drought looks positive , explains Makube.Eggs:The egg market is stable and producer prices remain at profitable levels. Prices at consumer level have also remained relatively stable with a steady increase on an average of 6 percent year on year in January 2017. We ve seen a lot of suppliers enter the eggs market which has increased supplies and placed profitability under pressure. Nonetheless, producers do have an option to reduce their stocks by shortening the lifecycles of their layer hens. The improved grain production outlook bodes well for feed prices, as feeding margins improve towards mid-year adds Makube.Bread:According to statistics issued by the Agbiz, South Africa s total bread production grew by 12 percent year-on-year in December 2016 to a total of 182 million loaves. The growth came from brown bread, it moved up from 82 million loaves in January to 90 million loaves.In fact, from October to December 2016, brown bread production was consistently higher than white bread. Prices of loaves of white and brown bread (700g) increased by 14 percent and 13 percent year-on-year at R13.60 and R12.28 respectively.Read also: Maize crops set to recover this yearWhite bread was 11 percent higher year-on-year in January, while brown was 13 percent more expensive over the same period.Maize:The price of the staple food, white maize, has for the first time in 2017 fallen below R2 000 per ton and is currently trading at R1 917/ ton, an advantage for food inflation which has remained sticky at double digit levels of 11.8 percent year-on-year in January. The latest production estimates indicates a harvest of 13.9 million tons of total maize with the white variety up by almost 144 percent year-on-year at 8.3 million tons. While this is the first production estimate and is likely to change as the season progresses, our view is that it is likely to improve given the good production conditions. However, the excessive moisture if rains persist coupled with early frost for some areas may result in a slight downward revision to the current crop estimate in the months ahead cautions Makube. The continued fall in maize prices on a year-on-year basis is expected to begin to filter through into the feed prices. Maize is a major input cost component, and a reduction in prices effectively means we will see feed prices begin to slowly stabilise. Agriculture is not out of the woods yet, but it is on its way out of the red and back into the positive , adds Makube.Adapted from a press release.BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE