ATTERIDGEVILLE – Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) punished Sundowns for taking their foot off the pedal after a commanding start in their CAF Champions League defence on Friday night.   The Brazilians looked like they would cruise to victory against a helpless KCCA who were there for the taking, especially in the first half. But Sundowns let them off the hook, and the Ugandans reacted by scoring an important away goal in a 2-1 victory for Masandawana. Kampala will need to win by just 1-0 in the return fixture next Saturday to reach the group stage of this competition for the first time in the club’s history and eliminate the reigning African champions.  The reception the Kings of Africa received here at the start of their title defence was more fitting for peasants rather than royalty. They played in front of slabs of concrete instead of a large number of fans who were celebrating finally being African champions last year. But that didn’t affect the players. They flexed their muscles, easily brushing aside the challenge of the Ugandan side early into this clash. Sundowns were 2-0 up before breaking a sweat and before some of their players had even touched the ball.  The stadium eventually filled up to a decent crowd. A stream of fans were still making their way into the Lucas Moripe when Soumahoro Bangaly headed Sundowns into the lead. Another defender, Ricardo Nascimento, made it 2-0 from the penalty spot after Joseph Ochaya brought down Thapelo Morena inside the box.  KCCA coach Mike Mutebi had promised that his club would go toe-to-toe with Sundowns. That proved disastrous because the Ugandans’ punches were tame, while the Brazilians floored them with little effort.  Once the visitors had settled into the match, they showed that they can play. But they resorted to sitting deep in the second half, looking to catch the Brazilians on the counter, but more importantly to ensure that they don’t go to Kampala with a heavy defeat. Attacking Sundowns opened them up, allowing the hosts to penetrate them through their intricate passes, with Percy Tau leading them from the front with his pace and daring nature.  Sundowns couldn’t open up KCCA after they parked the bus in a match where it was important that they start on a good note. Two of the last three Champions League winners before them, TP Mazembe and Al Ahly, failed to make it into the group stage in their title defence. The tournament’s new-look model has made it a bit easier for Sundowns to reach the group stage, expanding from two groups to four, which means that they play only one round and they’re in the group stage.  KCCA stole a vital away goal that brought their fans to life, wildly celebrating it as if it was a winning goal. It was a man used to South Africa, Geoffrey Sserunkuma, who scored for the Ugandans after Anele Ngcongca failed to clear the ball. Ngcongca went to the ground and the ball fell for Sserunkuma. The former Bloemfontein Celtic and Bidvest Wits striker fired a shot that left Wayne Sandilands flat-footed.  The Ugandans found their voices after that goal – a goal that left Pitso Mosimane’s men shell-shocked. Mosimane even played ball-boy towards the end of the match, eagerly throwing the ball back into action as Sundowns tried to retain their two-goal cushion. That goal didn’t come, which means that they must brace themselves for a fight in Kampala next weekend. @NJABULON Independent Media      