This year’s walk celebrates the 21st anniversary of the South African constitution. Participants were encouraged to walk for one of the 27 fundamental human rights assured by our constitution. This includes the rights to equality, human dignity, life, freedom and security as well as healthcare, food, water, social security and education. People of all ages took part in the walk from Constitution Hill through the Joburg CBD. Just before the march got under way, walkers were warmed up through a little dance and South African flag-waving regime to the song Waka-Waka. Some excited participants walked with their dogs, while some moms pushed their babies in prams. Tshidi Dube said she was walking for all the women who had been victims of the recent taxi rapes that have hit the city. “Our women cannot be raped when they are travelling publicly or just trying to get from A to B. It’s disgusting and a violation of their rights and the rights of all women out there." “It’s sad that people can be so low and do such horrific things. I hope it’s taken seriously by officials and dealt with quickly,” she said. Sporting a South African flag, Mbuyiseni Mngoma said he was walking for education. “Our young people are suffering, especially in rural schools." “They are not adequately supplied and some children still don’t have books, classrooms or desks." “How can pupils get to university and pass school if they’re not given proper schooling?” he asked. Several groups walked through the city singing, chanting and dancing, with many holding South African flags and placards quoting the various rights they were walking for. The city’s member of the mayoral committee for health and social development, Mpho Phalatse, and MMC for community development Nonhlanhla Sifumba also took part in the event. Phalatse, who was marching for the right to healthcare, told the crowd: “You have the right to access healthcare, including reproductive health. “I’m proud of you this morning as you’re here to access your right to health, because as you burn those calories you are becoming healthier,” she said. Sifumba said she was walking for a South Africa free of racism and xenophobia. We, the People Walk participants were able to take part in a 5km or 8km walk, while kids were given the opportunity to enjoy the We, the Children 1km walk. Following the walk, there were various activities for all ages, including food stalls, live performances by musicians, poets and dancers, as well as face-painting, a jumping castle and educational programmes to teach children about their rights and responsibilities. The Star