JOHANNESBURG – The Titans bowlers grabbed the spotlight from cricket’s biggest star as they produced a domineering performance to launch the home team to the top of the Momentum One-Day Cup on Tuesday. On a bright, sunny day at Willowmoore Park, Chris Morris and Lungi Ngidi delivered a pair of aggressive new-ball spells that rocked the Warriors’ top-order, giving the Titans early control which they never relinquished. AB de Villiers would be needed later to put the finishing touches on the Titans’ run-chase as he scored a delightful half-century, giving the few thousand spectators at Willowmoore Park something to remember from their outing in what was a seven-wicket victory for the hosts. That De Villiers could ease his way to an unbeaten 75 (62 balls, 10x4, 1x6) was all down to the bowling, however. The standard set by Morris and Ngidi with the new ball was very high, with the former asserting the Titans’ dominance soon after JJ Smuts had chosen to bat, having won the toss. Smuts’ opening partner Gihahn Cloete saw his middle stump disappear courtesy of a beauty by Morris, which was pitched up and swung back late into the left-hander. Five overs later Ngidi, who’d taken a couple of overs to find his rhythm, had Colin Ingram caught on the fine leg boundary by Junior Dala, who’d sprinted around the outfield and almost slid into the catch, but did excellently in the end to hold on to the chance. Colin Ackermann, who’s been in good form for most of the season, then got a glorious delivery from Ngidi that left him off the pitch and found the edge, with Heino Kuhn taking an easy catch behind. At 18/3 in the sixth over, the game was in effect over. Though the Warriors still had Smuts at the crease and enough batting in the shed, there was no way they could afford to be too adventurous. The Warriors skipper and Yaseen Vallie shared a restorative partnership of 66 for the fourth wicket, but at no stage were they able to wrest control from the home side. Smuts eventually fell, softly, getting a faint edge down the leg-side off Malusi Siboto after scoring 39, while Vallie, who batted very well in making 44, was also caught behind by Kuhn when attempting to cut Morris.   The Warriors were bowled out for 147, and Ngidi claimed 3/32 from eight overs, while Morris, released last week from the Proteas Test squad, picked up 3/30. Sisanda Magala and Andrew Birch were outstanding with the new ball for the Warriors, but they needed more than just the wicket of Jonathan Vandiar in the first 10 overs if they were to put the Titans under pressure. They did create a chance against Kuhn, but Jerry Nqolo at square leg dropped a relatively easy chance off Magala’s bowling in the sixth over. De Villiers would put the icing on a fine performance by the Titans with some typically stunning strokeplay as the Titans cantered to a bonus-point win. They will face the hapless Cape Cobras at SuperSport Park on Thursday, where a win will secure top spot and ensure they host the competition’s final on March 31. @shockerhess