The company, which is part of the PSG group, announced last week that it had bought refurbished coal, oil and gas fired packaged steam boiler suppliers firm Dryden. The acquisition will see Jonathan Probert, the current national sales manager for steam and combustion at Energy Partners, taking the reins as Dryden chief executive with company Gordon Slater and Sue Kiley remaining with the business until the end of this year. Probert said both the companies were excited about the prospects for future growth and development the deal brought into play. “It is a major step forward in terms of the opportunities it opens up to expand the scope of both companies’ operations, including better penetration into their respective markets, improving efficiencies of both outsourced and user-owned boilers and ancillary equipment and achieving meaningful 
operating cost savings to the benefit of customers,” Probert said. Energy Partners is subsidiary PSG group - an investment holding company consisting of underlying investment that operate across industries including financial services, banking, private equity, agriculture and education. Other PSG subsidiaries include Impak, Curro and Capitec. Probert said the acquisition would fall within Energy Partners steam and combustion division. The division focuses on the supply of steam energy, boiler control and the optimisation of systems. He said the sale, which took place in January, would enable Energy Partners, to provide the full spectrum of services and equipment to users of steam in industry in Southern Africa and beyond and facilitate a one-stop-shop experience for customers. Probert added that the deal would also provide a strong foundation for developing new products and services to better cater to the diverse requirements of the market. “The acquisition enables Energy Partners to extend its reach, bringing substantial value-added benefits to more customers with world class boiler repair and refurbishment capabilities, as well as an array of high-efficiency steam controls and energy optimisation systems. “We estimate that less than 10 percent of steam users in our market, encompassing industrial, commercial and service organisations, have adopted outsourcing solutions to date. “Steam users who convert to outsourcing as provided by Energy Partners stand to gain higher production efficiencies regardless of how sophisticated their existing boiler plant is as operated by  them in-house,” Probert said. BUSINESS REPORT