Port Elizabeth The man who allegedly shot and killed a Section 204 witness who was meant to testify in a gang-related murder trial, is expected to apply for bail in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court. Wayne Wabanie was back in court on Monday for the alleged murder of Alex Ferreira. Ferreira was gunned down just over a week ago in Bethelsdorp. Police arrested two men in connection with his murder. Last week Friday one of the men was released from custody due to insufficient evidence while the case against Wabanie was postponed until March 15 for a formal bail application. Ferreira, 28, was meant to testify in a gang-related murder trial to take place at the Port Elizabeth High Court. As a Section 204 witness, it meant that at the end of the trial, he could have been granted immunity for his wrong-doing if the court deemed him a forthright and honest witness. The trial is set to take place at the Port Elizabeth High Court and involves Constable Walter Francis, 29, alleged gang members Enzorich Kroates, 22, and Clement Kogana, 29. A trial date is yet to be finalised. Francis allegedly gave his official firearm and several rounds of ammunition to a gang member, Shane Potberg, who would later, according to the State, execute the drive by shooting of Denton Rademeyer who was shot and killed during October 2014. At the time of the alleged crime Francis was stationed at Humewood Police Station. He still serves within the South African Police Service and his legal team includes well known Port Elizabeth Advocate Terry Price, SC. The State alleges that on October 26, 2014, Potberg, Kroates, Kogana and another person drove to Bethelsdorp to take out Denton Rademeyer. Court documents state that Rademeyer was inside a house shop in the company of an eight-year old girl. As the pair crossed the road a drive by shooting was set in motion. The State alleges that Potberg, Kroates and Kogana drove closer and fired several shots at Rademeyer who died as a result of gunshot wounds. Rademeyer s death was reportedly part of a deadly feud between rival gangs. Alleged Up Stand Dogs gang member, Potberg, was subsequently killed when a gunman fired into his Dolph Road house in Bethelsdorp during February last year. African News Agency