The weather may be taking a turn for the cold right now but you can still look hot. One of the ultimate ways to turn up the heat on a look is the perfect companion for your lips. Whether it’s lipstick or a gloss, there are a few new products that will not only give you lips others want to kiss but make you feel like a million Randelas. MAKE YOUR MARK   Avon recently invited us to a fun day where ladies of all ages got to play with their new make-up range which is simply called Mark. An audience favourite was the Spectralash, which is just one mascara but it has three effects. Using a dial setting that starts at one – for full lashes – and ends at three – for the fullest lashes – it’s an awesome multi-purpose product that doesn’t clump or flake. While the Spectralash mascara was one of the knock-out hits, they have also come up with pretty and bold new colours of lipstick. If you want to enhance the size of your lips but don’t want to go quite as far as Kylie Jenner has, then the Mark 3D Plumping Lipstick is the one for you. Lips are said to appear plumper in an instant and your lips stay moisturised with one application. Avon also has bold shades like Max Mocha and Bare Impact (which are our faves!) as a part of their highest colour-concentrated lipstick range. RED FOR DANGER   A woman with a red lip is always power personified. She seems confident and in charge of her look. Particularly for the discerning older woman, a red lip is a staple. That’s why Elizabeth Arden’s  Beautiful Color Moisturizing Lipstick in Power Red is one this woman must have in her make-up bag. The Beautiful Color Moisturizing Lipstick range is popular for its hydrating and ultra-conditioning effect. As a result, it won’t feel flaky on your lips and is said to last up to 12 hours. In fact, it will make them feel smooth and even softer. Sticking with the red theme, this lipstick’s creamy cousin is Beautiful Color Bold Liquid Lipstick in Fiery Red. It presents the best of both worlds as it shines like a gloss but covers like a lipstick. As the name suggests, you want to put Fiery Red on to finish off a look that just says: hot tamale. EVERYDAY WEAR   Who doesn’t want a nourishing product on their lips for everyday wear? That’s where 3INA comes in. The makeup house has just released their lip balm oil range and it’s certainly worth a try. What is super cool about this young, edgy brand’s new offering is that the lip balm oil range combines rich essential oils (like Moroccan argan oil, sweet almond oil, olive oil, jojoba oil and avocado oil) with shea butter. It has a long-lasting effect and although it has a creamy texture, it does also have a shiny finish – all while hydrating your lips. The lip balm oil range comes in six tints of colour. To keep things youthful, you can rock the banana lip balm oil. Don’t let the name mislead you, it has a lush, green tint to it. The lemon lip balm oil range has a subtle yellow tint to it. It’s great that 3INA has such bold colour choices but they do have pink, orange and red tints too.  Which lip colours are you feeling right now? Tell us @IOL_Lifestyle on Twitter and Instagram 