How do we even begin to imagine the sheer barbarity of minibus taxi drivers who gang-raped a woman in front of her 10-year-old child? In conduct more depraved than what the laws of the jungle dictate, it seems the unknown men have been driving around the south-west of Joburg in a Toyota Quantum parading as a taxi. They have been on the prowl, preying on unsuspecting commuters. By close of business on Friday, three men were in custody over the spate of rapes and robberies which included forcing victims to hand over their bank cards and divulge their PIN numbers at gunpoint. Only someone who had completely taken leave of their senses could   display such savagery. It is therefore understandable that, throwing caution to the wind, Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane described the men as less than humans: “I think it’s time that we act against these animals.” They deserve to be treated with no less harshness than they had shown their victims, subjected to the full wrath of the law. The incidents have shone the spotlight on the lawlessness in the taxi industry, which is bedevilled by shameful conduct of some among them. From intolerance and propensity for violence to reckless driving with scant regard for commuters and other motorists, the enormity of their misdemeanours remain a blight on the attempts to curb the carnage on the roads. Each time a point needs to be made about crude language and behaviour, the men behind the wheels of the minibus taxis instantly spring to mind. They have become a menace on the road and a law unto themselves. Even more regrettable is the uncaring manner that has now become the trademark of the industry in the handling of the paying customer. Young women commuters have been known to bear the brunt. Some, such as  Nwabisa Ngcukana, have experienced the indignity of being stripped naked because one man with a restless eye and boundless lust took offence at their dress code. Ngcukana was stripped at the Noord Street taxi rank in January 2012 for daring to board a taxi wearing a mini-skirt. A subsequent march led by the likes of Nomvula Mokonyane and Redi Tlhabi failed to quell the advent of this lawlessness as the scourge now rears its ugly head again. More women have since come forward to relate tales of their ordeals at the hands of these vicious beasts - excuses for men, really. No woman needs to fear for their safety when venturing this most-routine everyday task: catching a taxi. The operators need to appreciate the seriousness of the responsibility they carry to provide a service for which users pay. More often than not commuters take their lives into their own hands when boarding taxis as some are virtual coffins on wheels, totally unroadworthy. Whether the rapists are genuine taxi drivers or not is immaterial. The onus is on the industry to disprove their affiliation. Anything less is tantamount to the sexual assaults visited on the women. We doff our hats to those in the leadership of the taxi industry who have heeded the call by Nkosi-Malobane when she said: “I want that commitment from the taxi industry” that they will collaborate with the law-enforcement agencies to bring the culprits to book. There have already been murmurs of protest from some taxi groupings that the rapists are not of their number. It is, unfortunately, not for them to rule on the affiliation or otherwise. That is strictly within the purview of the police. They can only help salvage the image of the taxi industry by co-operating with the law. Any semblance of reluctance will reflect badly on them, and violate the women even further. We commend Nkosi-Malobane for the haste with which she moved to attend to the matter and ensure the victims receive counselling. Now it is the turn of real men in the taxi industry to stand up and be counted. The Sunday Independent