JOHANNESBURG – Well, one position in the Springbok team has been filled. Coach Allister Coetzee might be unsure about a number of positions in his side, but he need look no further than Rohan Janse van Rensburg at inside centre. It’s a done deal. Sure, we’re only four rounds into this year’s Super Rugby competition and there is still a long way to go before the Boks run out against France in June – and we know a lot can happen between now and then – but if Janse van Rensburg stays fit, he is the man to wear the No 12 jersey. He was again sensational in all departments on Saturday night as the Lions powered their way to a third Super Rugby win in four outings, the team hitting back in some style after going down to the Jaguares in Buenos Aires a week ago. Let’s not forget though that the Lions travelled to Argentina with a weakened side, but when they were back to full strength on Saturday, they were again a class act. Janse van Rensburg, after scoring four tries in his first two games, scored another five-pointer and also had a hand in three of his teammates’ tries – two scored by Courtnall Skosan and the try from Malcolm Marx. Skosan ended with four of his own in a wonderful outing for him, again showing there is no substitute for raw pace and a hunger to work hard. He, too, must surely be in the national frame for the season ahead. But there were plenty of heroes in this performance. Andries Coetzee was superb at fullback, young Michael Tambwe, 19 and on debut, did everything asked of him except score a try, but he showed he has a bright future, while flank Ruan Ackermann was a tower of strength as ball-carrier and defender and lock Andries Ferreira was also a menace throughout. The Lions ended up scoring seven tries to the two five-pointers of the visitors, but it could have been a few more for the home team, Ferreira and Kriel going close in the first half. That said, the Reds also went close on a few occasions, especially in the opening 40 minutes, but outstanding defensive work in the tackle, in the scrum and in the lineout ensured the visitors went scoreless in the first period. All they could show for their efforts on the night were two late consolation tries in the second half – and a disciplinary record they won’t be happy about. Wing Eto Nabuli was yellow-carded for a ruck infringement after the restart, while in the same move shortly afterwards that resulted in Janse van Rensburg scoring his try, Reds flyhalf Quade Cooper was red-carded for a high hit on the burly centre. And it could have been a whole lot worse for the visitors – and it may still be – if the citing commissioner decides late and high shoulder charges on Jacques van Rooyen and Faf de Klerk in the first half deem further investigation. Coach Johan Ackermann will be extremely pleased with the performance, on attack and in defence, but there will be concern about the injuries suffered by replacements Jaco van der Walt and Johannes Jonker. Besides those setbacks, this was a Lions performance the coaching team – and the fans – will be proud of. Points-Scorers Lions 44 – Tries: Courtnall Skosan (4), Jaco Kriel, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Malcolm Marx. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (2), Andries Coetzee (1). Penalty: Jantjies (1). Reds 14 – Tries: Duncan Paia’aua, Taniela Tupou. Conversions: Jake McIntyre (2). @jacq_west Independent Media