History tells us that the best leaders are from humble beginnings, as is the case with late ANC president Oliver Tambo, writes Rejoice Mabudafhasi.Allow me to convey warm greetings on behalf of the government and the people of the Republic of South Africa to the government and the people of the Democratic Republic of Algeria. If the late President of the ANC, OR Tambo, was still alive he would be celebrating 100 years on October 27, 2017. Thus the reason the South African government together with his family declared 2017 as the OR Tambo Centenary Year to honour this international icon of our liberation struggle. History tells us that the best leaders are from humble beginnings. Allow me to give you highlights of Tambo s background:Oliver Reginald Kaizana Tambo (OR) was born in the village of Kantolo, Bizana, in the Mpondoland (eQawukeni), region of the Eastern Cape, on October 27, 1917. On completion of primary and secondary school, he went on to study at the then-named College of Fort Hare known as University of Fort Hare today, where he joined the Students Christian Association.Tambo graduated with his BSc degree in mathematics and physics at Fort Hare and further enrolled for a diploma in higher education. On July 24, 1951, Tambo qualified as an attorney. In the early 1940s, Tambo joined the ANC, an organisation founded in 1912 that opposed white supremacy. In 1957 Tambo was elected deputy president of the ANC.Subsequent to the Sharpeville Massacre, on March 21, 1960, Tambo embarked on a mission in exile in order to gain international support for the South African liberation movement. During 1963 and 1964, Tambo made a number of high profile speeches to present the ANC to the world, the most prominent being one made to the UN in October 1963. This speech inspired the UN Resolution 18 of October 11, 1963, calling on the South African government to release all political prisoners. As a president of the ANC, OR Tambo was afforded international status equivalent to a head of state during the liberation struggle. He mobilised the international community to support South Africa to fight against apartheid, and he was at the forefront in establishing ANC offices in different countries. He engineered one of the most sophisticated liberation struggles that saw a co-ordinated expression of the mass movement, underground units, armed struggle and international solidarity. For many decades, he was at the forefront of providing leadership for both the external and internal structures of the liberation movement against apartheid oppression and repression.President OR Tambo is respected throughout the world as an embodiment of the highest values. He is recognised as an eminent leader who succeeded in mobilising his people and the international community to the national cause of South Africa and to the international cause of fighting racism, xenophobia and the consolidation of an international human rights movement. As the major driving force behind the unity of the progressive forces in South Africa, he advocated for radical political change in South Africa through a revolutionary overthrow of the apartheid regime and the reactionary Bantustan political systems. The agenda led by president OR Tambo reinforced struggles against racism, colonialism and oppression which were fought elsewhere in the world, and his efforts also determined the balance of political and economic forces within the global political and economic order.He was an intellectual of note, who reinforced continuing discursive engagement, analytical description of the different phases of the liberation struggle and provided clearer understanding of the advances and political achievements of the liberation movement.Layers of political, military, cultural and economic leaders under the tutelage of president OR Tambo were developed to occupy strategic leadership positions, and they are still inspired by the teachings and influence of this great African leader. The South African government holds in high esteem his works as a negotiator, peacemaker, calm force and a brilliant strategist. Thus the National Order of Companions of OR Tambo bestowed by the president of South Africa, to foreign citizens who have promoted South African interests and aspirations through co-operation, solidarity, and support.During the ANC conference held in Durban in 1991, Tambo declined to stand for any position. The position of national chairman was created in his honour. Nelson Mandela was elected president of the organisation.The freedom enjoyed today can be attributed to his political zeal, his vision and his unique leadership qualities which kept such a huge political movement together, keeping that extensive network of freedom fighters together focused on achieving victory over the apartheid regime and preparing cadres of the movement to take over the running of their beloved country. October 27, 2017, which marks the centenary of OR Tambo, will be one of the important dates in the history of South Africa and the whole world. On this historical day the South African government will host an august event which will attract the international community. It will be preceded by a series of build-up events hosted in South Africa and internationally.South Africans and the international community will reflect on the life of this great and selfless leader, a visionary, a patriot, a great freedom fighter who led his people to freedom, celebrate the principles and the ideology he espoused, hail his relentless leadership which led to the demise of the apartheid regime and inspire young people as they are future leaders.The OR Tambo centenary is being implemented under the auspices of the government s resistance and liberation heritage route (RLHR) project, which is the national chapter of the Unesco/AU trans-boundary roads to independence programme. The RLHR provides an opportunity for the collection of stories about the movement and the continuity of the liberation struggle, the continuity of actions, exchange of ideas and it sets the context for critical reflection on the road travelled, the dialogue and engagement across the country and the trans-boundary co-ordination of the liberation struggle. It will also link with existing freedom trails.Algeria and South Africa have something in common they were both under colonial rule in the past, since there is a French expatriate community in Algeria and a combination of Dutch and British communities in South Africa. They experienced the pain of oppression. Algeria also provided South Africans with military training and weapons to execute the armed struggle. We are grateful for your support.Algeria is regarded as the cradle of the liberation struggle in Africa as it hosted and supported African leaders during their liberation struggles.This South Africa Algeria Cultural Season, which includes the OR Tambo memorial lecture, forms part of the build-up events of the OR Tambo centenary. It also seeks to strengthen our relations, promote social cohesion and realisation of the united and peaceful Africa we want. We hope that young people of this country will also be inspired by the amazing leadership of OR Tambo. During the early hours of April 24,1993, Oliver Reginald Tambo passed away. On that day our country lost a son of the soil, his legacy is alive, and it is still a fountain with fresh waters which quenches the thirst of the present and future generations.His epitaph, reads, in his own words: It is our responsibility to break down barriers of division and create a country where there will be neither whites nor blacks, just South Africans, free and united in diversity. * Mabudafhasi is Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture in South Africa.** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.