Cape Town The City of Cape Town's metro police, traffic service, and law enforcement departments made 196 arrests during operations over the last few days, the City of Cape Town said in a statement on Monday. The City's Metro Police department made 43 arrests during operations, of which eight were for possession of drugs, one for common assault, three for the illegal possession of firearms and ammunition, while 28 were arrested for drunk driving, and another three suspects for stolen goods and possession of imitation firearms. The Metro Police Gang and Drug Task Team, on Sunday afternoon at approximately 3:30, received a tip-off for an address in Hanover Park where weapons were allegedly being stored. &quot;They searched the premises and found a Glock 30 pistol in a drain and five rounds of ammunition. A further search revealed a second magazine, 18 rounds of ammunition and a holster. Two suspects were arrested for the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition,&quot; the City said. Photo: City of Cape TownOn Saturday, while on patrol in Manenberg, Metro Police officers attached to the Tactical Response Unit had arrested a 21-year-old male for the illegal possession of a firearm after being alerted about shots fired in the area. &quot;Upon arrival at the location, the officers spotted a man who bolted when he saw them. The officers gave chase and managed to apprehend him in Manenberg Avenue. When they searched him, they found a 9mm Norinco pistol with its serial number filed off and 20 rounds of ammunition. The suspect was detained at the Manenberg police station.&quot; While conducting general patrols in the Maitland area last Wednesday, Metro Police officers spotted two males and a female near a railway line crossing, and when stopped and searched, officers discovered &quot;two imitation 9mm firearms and two surveillance cameras valued at R40,000&quot;. The suspects were detained at the Maitland police station on various charges. Between February 26 and March 5, the City's Traffic Services arrested 152 suspects and issued 4,782 fines for various offences. The statement said: &quot;The Automated Number Plate Recognition Unit held a number of roadblocks throughout the city and arrested 77 suspects for outstanding warrants, served 835 warrants and released 192 motorists on a warning. Photo: City of Cape TownIn Operation Reclaim, held in Area South, officers arrested eight suspects for outstanding warrants, served 48 warrants, and released 16 motorists on a warning. Taxi operations in Kuils River and Delft saw officers impound eight vehicles, make one arrest for drunk driving, and issue 187 fines. &quot;Ongoing enforcement operations on the N2, Nelson Mandela Boulevard and Hospital Bend resulted in 15 arrests three for drunk driving, nine for outstanding warrants and three for reckless and negligent driving. They also issued 3,759 fines, served 171 warrants and released 16 motorists on a warning.&quot;In Khayelitsha, three roadblocks netted 39 motorists for drunk driving. Officers also issued 607 fines for various transgressions, In an operation focusing on illegal drag-racing in the Fish Hoek and Ocean View area, officers arrested 12 suspects for driving under the influence of alcohol and issued 229 fines.&quot; African News Agency