 Bill Paxton's cause of death has been confirmed as a stroke following complications with heart surgery. The 'Twister' actor passed away last month at the age of 61, and it has now been revealed that his cause of death came after he suffered a stroke 11 days after having undergone surgery to replace a heart valve and correct an aortic aneurysm. According to Bill's death certificate, originally obtained by TMZ.com, the star went under the knife for surgery on February 11, and suffered the stroke which ended his life on the 25th. At the time, Bill's family confirmed the sad news in a statement describing him as an "adored husband and father". The statement read: "It is with heavy hearts we share the news that Bill Paxton has passed away due to complications from surgery. "A loving husband and father, Bill began his career in Hollywood working on films in the art department and went on to have an illustrious career spanning four decades as a beloved and prolific actor and filmmaker. "Bill's passion for the arts was felt by all who knew him, and his warmth and tireless energy were undeniable. We ask to please respect the family's wish for privacy as they mourn the loss of their adored husband and father." Meanwhile, a number of stars have taken to social media to pay tribute to the actor, including his 'True Lies' co-star Jamie Lee Curtis. She wrote: "Nooooo. Bill Paxton is gone. Such a funny, talented, loving human. Louise & the children & family my [love] & support 2 u. #truelies (sic)" Meanwhile, 'Breaking Bad' actor Aaron Paul remembered one of the "greatest guys" he'd ever met. He wrote: "Bill Paxton was hands down one of the greatest guys that I have ever met. I feel lucky to have called him my friend. Bill, I love you. RIP. (sic)" Lou Diamond Phillips posted: "I am stunned & saddened at the passing of Bill Paxton. I just worked with him recently. A warm and beautiful soul and a talented actor. RIP (sic)" And Zach Braff wrote: "Bill Paxton. A very talented man. As skilled with comedy as he was with drama. Carpe Diem. #rip (sic)"  Bang Showbiz 