Weylandts Spaces, the interior design division of Weylandts, and Blok, an urban property developer, have formed a unique partnership for the launch of Blok’s Bantry Bay development, TWELVEONV. Located on Victoria Road, the ocean-inspired structure shimmers with energy. From every angle the building is exceptional, elevating the aesthetic appeal of an already beautiful neighbourhood. Unit 5A is the triple-story penthouse with unobstructed views of the mountain behind, ocean in front, and Bantry Bay in between. The apartment boasts three bedrooms, 3.5 bathrooms, an expansive 500sqm of total interior and exterior space and private pool, and every specification completed to the high standard that Blok has become known for. This breathtaking penthouse demanded exceptional finishing, and thus was born the partnership between Blok and Weylandts Spaces to furnish this amazing home. Weylandts Spaces was established to conceive and create bespoke interiors that reflect the personal vision of their clients. Chris Weylandt heads up the department himself, and he and the team not only curated iconic pieces of furniture that Weylandts is known for, but also created a range of bespoke pieces specifically for the TWELVEONV penthouse. This approach is in line with other ranges that Anna Weylandt (Chris’s daughter) is developing for the brand to harness the growing trend of downsizing from larger homes to more compact urban units. “Our aim was to carefully select pieces from our existing ranges that would appeal directly to the Blok customer, carefully considering materials, colours and textures” explains Chris. He continues “However, where there were unique requirements, we found unique solutions, designing and producing several pieces to complete the picture to the highest possible degree of comfort, design, and fit” The result was a masterful interior. Included in it are the Haiku beds in the guest bedrooms, a custom-made Oslo bed in the master bedroom with in-built headboard and bedside tables, and the Kappa dining table in the living area. The contemporary decor and furniture retailer has always been known for their natural oak timber furniture, and that features prominently, now sporting a specially formulated darker finish. Chris Weylandt concluded “We wanted this penthouse to be world-class, and we have delivered on that by integrating all aspects of the Weylandts brand offering, from highly detailed planning and design, to the delivery and installation of the finest furniture and homeware” “We are incredibly proud to have brand partners in Weylandts to embark on a project such as this,” says Jacques van Embden, MD of Blok. “The Blok aesthetic is, throughout all of our homes, minimal, clean and thoughtfully designed. We have always felt that Weylandts shares a similar vision and passion, and we are extremely pleased with the work that Spaces has done to complete this already masterfully designed apartment.” “Not only is it a wonderful real-life example of our work, that is traditionally sold off-plan, but, since it is currently still on the market, a huge opportunity for a discerning buyer to own a prime piece of real-estate on Cape Town’s highly desirable Atlantic Seaboard.”