Johannesburg – Human rights lawyer George Bizos fought back tears as he remembered the life and times of the late struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada who died on Tuesday at the age of 87. Bizos commended “Uncle Kathy” as the anti-apartheid veteran was known, for dedicating his life to the cause of the struggle and the realisation of freedom in South Africa. Kathrada was an active member of the ANC who humbly turned down an offer to serve in Mandela’s cabinet with the advent of democracy in 1994. “He was a brave man. He had a sense of humour…” recalled an emotional Bizos, his voice cracking as he fought back tears. Nelson Mandela Foundation CEO Sello Hatang said Kathrada lived his life to the fullest. “He is no more but he will always be. We need to celebrate that life,” he said. Ahmed Kathrada Foundation director Neeshan Balton said Kathrada passed on at 3.45am on Tuesday. He said it was a privilege working with the Rivonia Trialist who was released from jail in 1989. Kathrada spent 18 years in jail for treason and was jailed alongside Nelson Mandela and Andrew Mlangeni, among others. Balton described him as a very militant person. “His militancy would make Julius look tame. He was militant to the core, but that militancy was disciplined,” he said. “The major decisions of his life would be done in consultations with Walter Sisulu, with Madiba. There was very little that he would do without consultation first. That was something deeply entrenched in him,” said Balton, adding he didn’t have the whole day to talk about all the aspects of Kathrada’s life. “He didn’t want to be put on the life support system. He said, “I want to go in the most dignified way possible”. South African ambassador to Argentina Zanele Mandela-Dlamini, who is Mandela’s daughter, described Kathrada as a son of the soil and called on people to “honour what he and my father stood for”. She said: “Let’s us never forget the sacrifices they made for this country.” Among those who attended the prayer service included Gauteng Premier David Makhura, struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom and actors from Isidingo. Kathrada would be laid to rest at the West Park Cemetery at 10am in Joburg on Wednesday. President Jacob Zuma has declared a special official funeral for him. Former president Kgalema Motlanthe would deliver the keynote address at the interfaith service. Condolence books would be available at the Nelson Mandela and Ahmed Kathrada Foundations, and Gauteng Premier David Makhura’s office, among other places. In a media statement ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said: “(Kathrada’s) life is a lesson in humility, tolerance, resilience and a steadfast commitment to principle, even when taking a principled stance would place him at odds with his comrades. Uncle Kathy, despite disagreement with the ANC leadership from time to time, never abandoned nor turned his back on the ANC and always affirmed that the ANC and the ANC alone was the only political organisation that reflected the values and aspirations of all South Africans.” DA leader Mmusi Maimane said Kathrada embodied a profound sense of compassion, and an unwavering commitment to true justice. “As leader at the forefront of the struggle for liberation, Kathrada relentlessly fought for the freedoms we all cherish today.” @luyolomkentane luyolo.mkentane@inl.co.za The Star