Johannesburg – Women hold less than a third of senior
management roles in SA, according to a report released by Grant Thornton to
mark International Women’s Day. According to the survey, released on Wednesday, only 28
percent of senior management roles in South Africa are held by women. While this figure is higher than that of last year, the
percentage of women business leaders has not changed significantly since the
start of Grant Thornton’s research 13 years ago, when this figure was at 26
percent. “We have made no progress, and the small change is
probably only due to sampling variations,” says Lee-Anne Bac, director of
Advisory Services at Grant Thornton Johannesburg. “Unfortunately, we have a very patriarchal culture in
Africa, including South Africa. Until we make a concerted effort to change our
mindset to the role of women in the workplace, at home and society at large
we’re going to continue to battle with inequality in the workplace. Change
starts with how we treat children - we should be striving to raise boys and
girls equally in a gender neutral environment.” The annual report, Women in business: New
perspectives on risk and reward, based on Grant Thornton’s International
Business Report which surveys 5 500 businesses in 36 economies, also shows that
almost a third (31 percent) of SA companies have no women at all in senior
management positions. Globally, too, the pace of change towards gender equity
remains glacial. South Africa is slightly ahead of the global average of 25
percent of senior roles held by women (SA: 28 percent) and better than the
global average of 34 percent of businesses with no women in senior management
(SA: 31 percent). Read also: #Women'sDay: Let women thrive in world of work “We shouldn’t, however, be comparing ourselves against
the global situation,” points out Bac. “Instead, we should strive to match
those countries that are performing at above average rates.” Developing leaders Globally, Grant Thornton’s data shows developing regions
continue to lead the charge on diversity while developed economies lag behind.
Eastern Europe performs best, with 38 percent of senior roles held by women in
2017 and just 9 percent of businesses with no women in senior management. “We should set our sights on emulating Eastern Europe,
and not benchmarking ourselves against the USA and Europe, particularly at this
time,” says Bac. The MINT economies (Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and
Turkey) saw the most improvement, with the proportion of senior roles held by
women rising from 26 percent in 2016 to 28 percent in 2017 and the percentage
of businesses with no women in senior management falling from 36 percent in
2016 to 27 percent in 2017. This is in significant contrast to the major developed
economies of the G7, which have remained static compared to 2016 with 22
percent of senior roles held by women and 39 percent of businesses with no
women in senior management. Common senior roles for women The report reveals it is still most common for senior
women to be in supporting roles, particularly as human resources directors or
chief financial officers. However, there has been a slow rise in the number of
women in chief executive officer roles in South Africa, from 7 percent in 2015
to 9 percent in 2016 and 10 percent in 2017. Read also: #Women'sDay: One in five say women should stay at home “Again, however, the rise is not very significant,” says
Bac, who believes we have reached a point of complacency in this country.
“Businesses have put some women in management positions, ticked that box, and
now they are not doing anything further. “Instead, companies should constantly be working to
improve gender diversity in the workplace. We have too few women in management
positions, and until we tilt that balance it will remain difficult for women to
influence the change. Women are fighting from a position of lack of power.” BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE