Although there is still some confusion as to why exactly it all happened, it’s been taken as a show of appreciation for a player often under-appreciated. Elgar’s quite a straightforward bloke. It’s quite an appealing trait. So, in assessing his wonderful first day century in Dunedin, Elgar provided a fittingly frank explanation. “I am not very talented and free-scoring like other guys are, so you’ve got to use your advantages, and that’s obviously my ability to guts it out and grind it.” As attributes go, guts and an ability to grind out an innings aren’t particularly sexy - well, unless you were a member of the Railway Stand that married Elgar at the start of the year. The flamboyant shot-makers grab the headlines, flourish in the spotlight, they’re the ones all the girls want. But spending six hours at the crease, facing 262 balls, where’s the fun in watching that? Besides the Railway Stand, the other place Elgar is very much appreciated is the dressing room, where teammates relish the guts and the talent it takes to grind out an innings. For them it’s loads of fun. That’s why the South African squad to a man stood outside the change-room at the University Oval loudly applauding Elgar’s first day effort at the conclusion of play on Wednesday. It was very hard work, that required bucket loads of concentration, skill and of course a fair amount of good fortune. “This game’s difficult, trust me,” Elgar remarked when asked how he’d manage to survive that testing opening session against Trent Boult, Neil Wagner and Jeetan Patel. “This is a mental game . It was one of those situations where you had to scrap it out, fight it out, not think about yourself, but the bigger picture and that’s the team and what the team need in that moment. It was nice, it’s always a scrap out there.”   For all that grittiness and wanting to graft, Elgar operates in a results business and if he didn’t marry his characteristics to runs on the board, he wouldn’t be playing Test cricket. There’s a growing consistency about Elgar’s game. Wednesday’s was his third century of the season, backing up three figure scores in the first Test in Perth against Australia last November and a then career best 129 against Sri Lanka the day before he exchanged vows with the Railway Stand. Coming into the first Test against the Black Caps he was averaging 46.9 this season and when you consider the bowlers he’s faced and some of the pitches he’s had to open the batting on, that figure almost doubles in value. In combination with Stephen Cook, he’s provided the kind of solidity at the top of the order that the Proteas lacked during their difficult run in 2015/16. They epitomise what the team wants to be, according to Russell Domingo. Before the Test, Elgar had talked about how the Proteas would have to adopt “a non-South African-style” in order to have success in the first Test. By that he meant tone down the aggression and be willing to absorb pressure for long periods of time. Nevermind being a ‘non-South African-style’, because it’s very much a Dean Elgar-style and it’s why he’s been so successful this summer. He now looks like he belongs, is comfortable in how he plays. And where once it was only his teammates that could appreciate his grit and determination, the wider public, many still stung by how poorly the team performed last season, can see the importance and value in one who doesn’t score freely or is possibly not as talented as some of his teammates. His perseverance is now highly valued and as the Railway Stand showed in January, much loved, too. The Star