Magalies Park timeshare resort  in Hartbeespoort in the North West is undergoing a massive R40 million refurbishment that will revitalise its 185 chalets with a fresh and modern new look. An initial R12 million investment saw the first phase completed last year, which will be followed by a further R28 million over the next two years. The origins of the resort date as far back as 1920 when it operated as a dairy farm at the foot of the majestic Magaliesberg Mountains in the North-West Province. Since its visionary transformation into a timeshare resort in 1986, Magalies Park has evolved into a sought-after family holiday destination in South Africa. First Group Services and Resorts Director, Johann Jordaan, said that although various smaller refurbishment programmes had been carried out over the years, the time had come for a large-scale modern face lift for the resort. “We listened to the needs of our guests and invested countless hours engaging with contractors and designers to formulate a refurbishment plan that would tick all the boxes for the best options available to revitalise and transform our property. State-of-the-art furnishings complimented by innovative lighting and contemporary artwork, modern bathrooms and kitchens, and breath-taking interior design throughout will bring the Magalies Resort vacation experience into a new dimension,” said Jordaan.  All the bedrooms will be enhanced with underfloor heating to provide added comfort for the cold winter holidays. The double-beds will be replaced with luxurious king-size beds in the main bedroom, and for premium family viewing, 40-inch flat screen TV’s will be installed in the lounges of each chalet. “No corners have been cut in this refurbishment plan. Our investment will ensure that we continue to offer our guests the perfect combination of the best luxury accommodation with the best leisure activities, set in tranquil surroundings. This is the perfect backdrop for creating a legacy of family vacations,” added Jordaan.  Other attractions include the renown Magalies Park 18-hole championship golf course and the more recent addition, the Magalies Splash Zone water park. The resort also boasts the world-class La Vita health spa, top-notch conference facilities and delicious continental cuisine dining at the Pica Pau restaurant.