In the Concourt’s judgment this week, it ruled that the minister should submit an affidavit by the end of this month explaining why she should not be held personally liable for the application brought by the Black Sash and others seeking the court’s oversight in the payment of social grants. Suggesting the move was unprecedented, Dlamini said her legal team had begun drafting a response. In it, they would explain the role that she played leading up to the disastrous impasse which left the nation on tenterhooks for weeks, and 17 million poor South Africans dependent on social grants anxious about their future. “What shocked me a little bit in the judgment is Bathabile paying from her personal pocket. I’ve never heard of that before. “Maybe it’s the beginning of it but also I believe the response we are going to give will be convincing enough for everyone to see there were times when I tried to push, but push very carefully.” The minister detailed her version of events in the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) saga in an interview with The Sunday Independent at her Waterkloof home on Saturday. Pointing out several factors, she insisted the nation were unaware of these in describing her conduct as “arrogant”. The issues, according to her, ranged from greed, patriarchal attitudes and insubordination to underhanded political tactics by her detractors. “I really think they don’t know what is happening inside. “They look at what is happening externally, and sometimes you want to defend your space and ensure that the tensions that are there in that department are kept to yourselves, so that you give yourself enough space to deal with those problems. “And I thought at the time we were giving an opportunity to do that, but at the same time that led to us being behind in a number of things.” The minister missed several opportunities to take the country into her confidence, including when she appeared before the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) in Parliament. What she wished she had done on that day, though, was apologise to the public for the “confusion and fears caused” but that’s where the regrets stop. A lot was at stake, requiring that she treaded carefully so as not to be seen as a “bully”. She claimed that there were machinations by those seeking to get their hands on the billions of rand allocated to social grants, and some of this had been presented to her department as possible solutions to avoid impending doom. “There is a subtle fight for this budget that people would not see, because over a period of four years you will have R500billion in the budget, and everyone wants to control it. “Others think they can use this money meant to pay beneficiaries to revamp themselves, and others think they can just come in without due diligence, without proving their track record.” She accused the SA Post Office of acting “dishonestly” by going behind her department’s back to become friends of the court when the matter was heard this week. “We had our own mind of how we were going to bring in the Post Office, but now they think they are going to come in and bulldoze everyone without proper analysis of their track record. “And we sit with them in the ministerial committee and then they go and become friends of the court. What kind of a behaviour is that? “It’s full of dishonesty, only a child would not see the dishonesty in the whole thing.” Following the court’s ruling, Sassa chief executive Thokozani Magwaza admitted the entity had dropped the ball, but that’s not all he should be owning up to, according to Dlamini. She accused him of gender bias, saying she had to call on male cabinet ministers to reason with him to sign the affidavit that was submitted late to the Constitutional Court. She also insinuated things fell apart when the former chief executive Virginia Petersen left office. Magwaza has denied claims of wrongdoing in the past. Cosatu and the SACP were also in the minister’s firing line for demanding her resignation as the crisis unfolded. The calls were nothing but political attacks, she said, questioning why she had never heard them make similar calls when other government departments were found wanting. “Why would Cosatu be so much interested in this? It was not the start too (sic). When I did not attend a Nedlac meeting, the GS (general secretary) of Cosatu said I am busy with factional work. Why because they had pronounced a particular candidate and they are used to expelling people when they don’t agree with them.” She said the SACP would first have to look at its own general secretary in the context of the #FeesMustFall crisis before casting aspersions on her. Meanwhile, President Jacob Zuma announced yesterday that he would take over the activities of the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) overlooking the needs of social grants following the Constitutional Court ruling on Friday. The president said he would now be chairing the meeting of the IMC, previously co-chaired by Dlamini and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Members of the IMC also include Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant and Transport Minister Dipuo Peters. Zuma also added Telecommunications and Postal Services Minister Siyabonga Cwele, Communications Minister Faith Muthambi and Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. “The directors-general of the departments of Social Development and the National Treasury shall co-chair the technical task team and lead the IMC secretariat,” said Zuma. “Beyond the important directive from the Constitutional Court, the IMC will also focus on comprehensive social security reforms with a view to addressing the gaps and weaknesses identified and ensuring the provision of a comprehensive social security for all. “The labour movement has been calling for comprehensive reforms of our social security system over a period of time. “The IMC will assist cabinet in moving that process forward,” Zuma said. @ThetoThakane Sunday Independent