Three of the victims were innocent bystanders while a fourth victim, a 16-year-old boy who was killed, is believed to have been a gang member. An innocent bystander became the first victim at 6am on Saturday when he was caught in crossfire in Seine Road. Police say the 29-year-old man died at the scene. Less than 20 minutes later, the teenaged boy was gunned down on his way to the shop in Red River Street. Five hours later, at 11:05am, 52-year-old Amiena Hendricks, was shot in both her legs through the iron fencing at her home in Pecos Walk. The mom, who is currently being treated at Groote Schuur Hospital, might lose her left leg as the bullet severely damaged nerves. And on Sunday afternoon, another person was reportedly shot and wounded in the leg in Karen Court. Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, couldn’t confirm Sunday’s incident, but said Saturday’s shootings are being investigated. “Circumstances surrounding three separate shooting incidents in Manenberg are under investigation. Cases of murder were opened for investigation,” Rwexana said. On Sunday, residents were supposed to hold a protest march in the area, calling on police to deploy more officers in the area. However, community leader Roegshanda Pascoe, says people were too scared to leave their homes as the shooting continued uninterrupted. “The march did not happen because people are too scared. Almal huil (Everyone cry) but something needs to be done,” she says. “SAPS needs to stop lying and saying they have a plan when they don’t. Police need resources. We want the minister of justice and police to hear our pleas.” Meanwhile, a source close to a specialised unit expressed his anger after a 30-man unit was redeployed as security for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who was campaigning in Nyanga. The official said: “They were deployed to help within Manenberg with all the shootings. They were then redeployed to assist with security for [Dlamini-Zuma] who was campaigning in Nyanga. “Manenberg SAPS were attacked by gangsters after they found a gun. We then had to rush back through bumper to bumper traffic to get back to Manenberg when we heard officers were attacked.” Daily Voice