Gumede was on stage at a women’s empowerment breakfast, part of the festival's activities, when she broke out in song. Dlamini Zuma was a guest speaker at the event. Essence is being hosted at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre in Durban. The spectacle was caught on camera by the DA's KwaZulu-Natal leader, Zwakele Mncwango. In the 44-second clip, ANC supporters are seen standing up to clap and sing along with Gumede. The DA has lambasted Gumede and the eThekwini Municipality over the stunt, adding that Dlamini Zuma was Gumede’s preferred candidate to succeed President Jacob Zuma as leader of the ANC. Mncwango also accused the municipality of using public funds to gain support for the ANC ahead of their electoral congress in December. “It is clear the festival is being used as a tool to increase support for the ANC candidate,” said Mncwango. He said the DA believed that the festival, which is run in partnership with New Orleans, Durban’s sister city, was a wasteful and fruitless expense. “This is done by the ANC to enrich the ANC and selected cronies around Mama Zandile Gumede. This year it is also being used for factionalism and campaigning for the ANC,” said Mncwango. Since 2015, he said, the city had spent an estimated R175 million on the festival. “When questions are asked about the return on this investment, the ANC in eThekwini is unable to give statistics on how many permanent jobs were generated or give evidence of how local businesses have benefited from this huge investment by the city,” he said. Responding to the DA’s comments, mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said the mayor had expressed her support for women in leadership. “She has encouraged women to apply for senior positions in the city. She was speaking in line with the African Union declaration on the decade of women, and called on the public and private sector to support women in business,” he said. Local small- and medium-sized businesses have been urged to take advantage of opportunities to develop their businesses as part of a drive to achieve radical economic transformation in the city and province. On Thursday, a press briefing was held where delegates Bishop TD Jakes, the Reverend Al Sharpton, acting deputy city manager Philip Sithole  and Vanessa Deluca, editor-in -chief of Essence Magazine, shared their thoughts on the event, which runs until Sunday. The public can still join the fun and activities. Tickets are available for a talk by activist Sharpton and a concert headlined by Jill Scott, Nasty C, Babes Wodumo, MiCasa and Khuzani. Some sessions of the festival are free and open to 
the public. Daily News