Frankfurt Motor Show - This is the Land Rover Discovery SVX, an entirely new departure for the company’s SVX bespoke division. Rather than adding opulent luxury and fine finishes, this Disco has been built to tackle the rough stuff.
 
It will join the SVR and SVAutobiography lines, which built with emphasis on road performance and supreme luxury respectively, adding an extreme expression of all-terrain capability to the Special Vehicle Operations portfolio. It will be offered only with Jaguar Land Rover’s five-litre supercharged petrol V8, tuned in this application for 385kW and 625Nm, mated to an eight-speed automatic gearbox and two-speed transfer box, each with special software calibration, and a pistol shifter in place of the usual rotary drive select shifter for more positive control when the Disco is bouncing around on rough terrain. It’s also also the first Discovery to be fitted with hydraulic active roll control for  increased wheel articulation and improved body control for extreme off-road traction, while also reducing body roll for on-road driving.  Active centre and electronic rear locking differentials are standard, as is traction control to maximise grip on all surfaces. The SVX has improved approach, departure and breakover angles thanks to raised air suspension with longer dampers and revised knuckles and 815mm diameter 275/55 Goodyear Wrangler all-terrain tyres on 20 inch forged aluminium alloy wheels. Their increased sidewall height reduces contact pressure and improves performance on soft surfaces, while a more aggressive tread pattern improves grip in muddy conditions. The Land Rover designers went back to iconic Discovery models such as the Camel Trophy and G4 Challenge specials to reference the look they wanted. The SVX show car - JLR calls it a ‘production preview’ - has special front and rear bumpers with built-in bash plates and orange-finished recovery eyes – each rated for more than six ton - an anti-glare bonnet finish and an integrated rear-mounted electric winch. It’s finished in a special satin grey, with black side vents and grille, black roof rails and a roof-mounted unit with two extra light pods, the full leather interior is trimmed in off-white and grey with flashes of orange. Sadly, we are told there are no plans to release Rover Discovery SVX in South Africa.   IOL Motoring
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter