The competition has seen 1 200 Shoprite employees from across the continent, including staff from Checkers, Usave, House & Home, OK Furniture, LiquorShop, Computicket, MediRite and Hungry Lion chains, vie for a shot at 
stardom. Judges had to narrow the talent down to 12 finalists, who participated in rehearsals at Ratanga Junction yesterday. The performers have received one-on-one vocal coaching and mentorship. Sive Makreqa, 21, from Langa is a cashier at Checkers De Grendel, but has big dreams of becoming one of the country's top vocal talents. “I've always known I can sing and that I am destined to make it big. "This is a good opportunity for me to showcase my talent.” Makreqa said he would love to make his family proud. “I would love them to see me be something in life, doing something that I love.” Jade Engelbrecht, 22, from Tafelsig, Mitchells Plain, has worked her way up from a cashier to an administrative clerk in the four years she has been working at an OK Furniture store. She did not make it to the finals of the competition, but was still chosen to perform as an opening act at the finale. Now she will see her long-time dream of performing on a big stage come true. “I have been singing all my life, but I have been stuck (in) my singing career for years. This opportunity has taken me to another level, it is so big for me. “The vocal training we've been getting is so great, it has really helped me and I would not have been able to afford it. “Since I hit the stage in the semi-final round, I have been getting calls from people requesting me to perform, I am so overjoyed.” The talent have been hosted in a hotel for a week and the finale will take place at the GrandWest Grand Arena on Thursday. The winner will receive a cash prize of R5 000, second will win R3 000 and third R2 000. In addition to the money, the top three will also win several sponsored prizes. TopStars producer Mynie Grové said: “This is a project to showcase spectacular talent and to make the talent know that they are spectacular. "It does not matter where you come from, if you push yourself you can do anything you want to do.”  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za 