At this stage, your lawn is probably starting to show some signs of improvement. You can help along the process by implementing some basic preparations to ensure that your lawn will be looking beautiful by the time summer is in full swing. “Caring for your lawn doesn’t need to be a tedious task and by simply following some basic steps you can get your lawn summer ready quite quickly”, says business manager for Garden Master: Chané Hendricks. “Below we offer some advice to get you going”. Service your equipment Get started by taking your lawnmower and weed eater to a reputable agent for a proper service. To ensure stress free mowing, it is important to have working plugs and smooth running engines. It is important to also check whether new cutting blades should be fitted or, if the old ones can be sharpened. Mow the lawn and aim for the grass to be around 2.5cm in height. There are of course exceptions and it is important to consider the rainfall region you live in as it is suggested to wait for the ‘Spring treatment’ until September in very cold areas. Rake, rake After you have mowed your lawn, rake through, across and downwards to remove dead mat. It is best to use a sharp-toothed steel rake. Once you have completed raking your garden, take either a hollow-tined or an ordinary garden fork and drive it into the turf every 20 to 30cm. Work the prongs down as far as they can go and wriggle the fork about. “This technique allows air, food and water to reach the root system”, says Hendricks. “Once you have done this you will need to feed your lawn”. Lawn dressing There are several products, both chemical and organic, that you can use in order to do so which will promote strong root and cell growth first. It is important to water the lawn the day before. When applying Garden Master’s all-purpose Organic Fertiliser, be sure to check the instructions on the product as it should be done at the recommended rate. Water the lawn again after feeding as fertilisers can burn a dry lawn. Quality compost Once your lawn has dried off well, laying on a top dressing is a great way to smooth out your lawn and encourage new growth. A good quality organic compost will improve drainage and water holding capacity. A 3cm layer should be applied to the lawn – you can level it out by using a flat board tied to the end of your rake. “It is suggested to start watering again as soon as the blades of grass start showing through”, added Hendricks.