Jada Pinkett Smith has dismissed suggestions she is a practicing Scientologist and says she is interested in many religions and spiritual practices. The 'Girls Trip' star took to Twitter on Tuesday, after actress Leah Remini - who left the controversial sci-fi cult in 2013 - alleged that she had seen the 46-year-old beauty at the Church of Scientology Celebrity Centre in Los Angeles on many occasions. Jada - who has 19-year-old son Jaden and 16-year-old daughter Willow with husband Will Smith - insists that just because she has visited the Scientology Celebrity Centre doesn't make her a follower of the quasi religion, just as her trips to various mosques, temples and Christian churches around the world do not make her a follower of any of the religions associated with those places of worship. The 'Gotham' actress says she simply practices "human kindness" and that no one has the right to discuss her beliefs. In a series of tweets, she posted: "I recently lit Shabbat candles with Rabbi Bentley at Temple Sinai... but I am not Jewish. "I have prayed in mosques all over the world ... but I am not a Muslim. "I have read the Bhagavad Gita ... but I am not a Hindu. I have chanted and meditated in some of the most magnificent temples on earth ... but I am not a Buddhist. I have studied Dianetics, and appreciate the merits of Study Tech ... but I am not a Scientologist. I practice human kindness, and I believe that we each have the right to determine what we are and what we are not ... NO ONE ELSE can hold that power. (sic)"  It comes after 'Kevin Can Wait' actress Leah said in an interview that she witnessed Jada attend the church, but said her 'Suicide Squad' actor husband wasn't present. Leah - whose docu-series 'Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath' is returning for a second season - said recently: "I know Jada's in. She's been in Scientology a long time. I never saw Will Smith there, but I saw Jada at the Celebrity Centre they opened up a Scientology school, and have since closed it. But Jada, I had seen her at the Scientology Celebrity Centre all the time." Scientology is a body of beliefs and practices created in 1954 by American science fiction author L. Ron Hubbard. Bizarrely, Hubbard claimed that billions of extra-terrestrial beings were sent to Earth by Xenu - the dictator of the 'Galactic Confederacy', comprised of 26 stars and 76 planets including Earth - who gathered them around volcanoes and then destroyed the aliens with hydrogen bombs. The aliens' souls attached themselves to chosen humans, known as thetans, who will be one day be saved from their life of spiritual harm.