Johannesburg - Fingerprints have successfully linked one of the two men arrested in connection to the attempted hijacking of Rhythm City actor Dumi Masilela to the incident. Masilela had been parked in his car in Tembisa on August 2 when a black Jeep approached and a shot was fired at him as he tried to drive away. He was hit by the bullet and later died in hospital. During proceedings on Friday at the Benoni Magistrate's Court, State prosecutor Lumka Phoswa said that one set of fingerprints that were found in the hijacked Jeep Wrangler that was apparently involved in the incident last month was positively linked to Mfundo Nkosi. Nkosi and Bongani Masombuka were found in possession of a hijacked Jeep Wrangler which was allegedly used in the attempted hijacking of Masilela, as well as in possession of an unlicensed firearm. The duo are facing charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances. Read: Dumi Masilela suspects await bail decision "Accused one [Masombuka] has been linked via 205 (cellphone records)," Phoswa told the court. Phoswa added that the second set of fingerprints were suspected to belong to a man who was in custody at the Germiston Police Station after he was found in possession of an unlicensed firearm that Nkosi claimed was used to shoot at Masilela. On Wednesday, investigating officer Constable Mthokozisi Ngwenya told the court that during Nkosi's confession, he said the man held at the Germiston Police Station was the one who fired the shot that killed Masilela. Also read: Slain Dumi Masilela's family slams 'outrageous' pregnancy rumours Phoswa said that the man would be added to the case and an identity parade would be held next week, despite him refusing to have his fingerprints taken and undergoing the identity parade after he was arrested. Masilela succumbed to his injuries at a Tembisa hospital, about a month after he tied the knot with actress Simphiwe Ngema. Read more: WATCH: #DumiMasilela celebrated at moving memorial service He began acting after his professional soccer career with Supersport United and Highlands Park was cut short following a car accident. The matter was postponed to September 21. African News Agency