JOHANNESBURG - Platinum Stars’ prospective buyers - a joint venture by the Machipa Legacy Foundation (MLP), NPC and Medimo 368 Engineering - have accused Dikwena’s management, led by chairman Cliff Ramoroa, of corruption and mismanagement. Businessman Thabo Mokgatle of MLP hit out during a media briefing on Wednesday. “There is no way we are going to leave them,” Mokgatle said. “When you are corrupt, you are corrupt and you must go behind bars. With my experience here, no one has gone to jail. They just fire you. But this time we have to make sure that the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) comes on board. "We are going to open a case of fraud so that they know that we aren’t playing. If their intention was to be richer through the club (they have something coming to them). There are only four people at Platinum Stars who control the team. The rest are not known. We are going to deal with those four.” Mokgatle accused the current management of a number of illicit dealings, including getting kickbacks, money laundering, corruption in the procurement of jerseys and mismanagement of club assets. “I know that they will issue a statement to say what I am saying is wrong,” Mogkgatle said. “But we are all politicians and they aren’t politicians. They are shy to talk to people. They only know radio and TV. We will challenge them. We will show them that we love Platinum Stars. We will show them any mishaps they have done.” Dikwena’s management revealed at the start of the season that they had put the club for sale but would only sell to someone who will keep the team in the region. Mokgatle revealed that they have proof that might not be the case anymore, alleging that a consortium led by MEC of Education in Gauteng, Panyaza Lesufi, is among the people interested in buying the club. Lesufi and his consortium have been on a mission to revive Moroka Swallows. Their efforts to purchase Free State Stars fell through on the 11th hour. When reached for comment on these allegations, Ramoroa said he had not heard them and would therefore not comment before dropping the phone. The Star   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 