DURBAN - Mamelodi Sundowns mentor Pitso “Jingles” Mosimane has challenged European teams to up their bids if they are serious about signing Khama Billiat. The Zimbabwean international had been the talk of the transfer window, alongside Jeremy Brockie of SuperSport United. Billiat (27) has been a revelation for Sundowns in the past five years, winning two league titles as well as the Caf Champions League. Other honours include the Nedbank Cup, Telkom Knockout, and the Caf Super Cup. He also represented Sundowns at the Fifa Club World. At the beginning of the year he campaigned at the Africa Cup of Nations where he was wore the colours of Zimbabwe. Billiat lost the African Player of the Year based in Africa to his compatriot Denis Onyango. All this lead to Al Nassr of Saudi Arabia recently making an offer for Billiat, but it wasn’t good enough for Sundowns to release him. Mosimane also believes that Billiat is ready to make the grade in Europe. “I think it is the right time now for Khama to move abroad. It is the right time! How did Keagan (Dolly) go? When he is contracted, what needs to happen? Terminate the contract? An important player that you bought? Do you do that? Because it is about time. You’ve got to do the business. So let the business happen,” Mosimane stated. Billiat has seen teammates Bongani Zungu and Keagan Dolly leave the club and fulfill their European dreams, with both now in France. “I spoke to Khama and said to him if you could bring the performances that saw him winning so many PSL awards, his release clause they will trigger it. “Even Alexis Sanchez had offers six months before the window at Arsenal but they didn’t release him because they were not happy with the offers they received. But he can still go because who do they want to wait for six months? “If you want to sign Khama and you are a team from outside, this guy has got six months on his contract. You can pick him up for free after six months. He is hot player. Do you want to wait for six months? "Somebody is going to buy him within the six months. I’ve been there, I know these things. You will be left waiting, thinking you are going to get him for free. It has happened in football. Did you see what happen to Rivaldo Coetzee? “I couldn’t wait. It is better to get him now on a rebound where he says ‘I don’t to play for Ajax’,” Mosimane explained. Billiat is set to spend at least the next six months at Sundowns, and was present on Friday against Polokwane City in a friendly match. The Mercury   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 