Elginnin Reen, 20, was found hanging from the roof of a room in the house he shared with his aunt, Charmaine Jaars, at around 1pm. He was a Grade 11 pupil at the Greenpoint High School. Several family members, classmates and community members gathered outside the house, where Reen hanged himself with a piece of wire, as forensic and pathology personnel worked inside. Jaars told the DFA that Reen had gone for a walk and then returned home on the morning of the incident. “I was busy doing the washing outside and Elginnin was in  his room. The door was closed but I left him, as I thought he was washing himself. When I went into the house again after a while, I opened the door and I saw him, from the back, hanging from the roof,” said Jaars. “I ran outside and screamed for help, before collapsing to the ground. I was completely numb, as it came as a huge shock. No one expected anything like this from him. I am just glad I did not see his face, as it would have haunted me.” Jaars said that Reen had told her that he missed his family, who stays in Van Wyksvlei, shortly before the incident. One of Reen’s classmates, Jocelyn Bok, could not hold back her tears as she described him as “a brother” to her. “He was the sweetest, kindest and friendliest person anyone could ever know. He was never sad or angry and was always making jokes and laughing. He always had a smile on his face,” Bok said. She added that he was “making music and dancing” at school on Friday, the last time she had seen him. Reen’s class teacher, Colleen Spadonia, was also overcome with emotion after hearing about the suicide. “He was my star student and right hand, someone I could always depend upon,” she said. Spadonia added that Reen’s death came as a “huge shock”, as he never gave any indication that anything was wrong. Reen’s grandfather, Dirk Jaars, also said that no one suspected that anything was wrong, but added that Reen’s best friend also committed suicide last year. Police spokesperson, Captain Sergio Kock, on Sunday confirmed that the police in Kimberley had opened an inquest into the death of a 20-year-old male. “It is alleged that the man was found hanging in a house in Greenpoint on Saturday. “The circumstances surrounding the death are being investigated, although no foul play is suspected at this stage. Police request that anyone with information contact Detective Warrant Officer Patrick Dibebe on 082 302 0407,” Kock said. Diamond Fields Advertiser