Sant’Agata Bolognese - This is Lamborghini’s ‘star car’ for the upcoming Frankfurt motor show, the Aventador S Roadster, which the maker says is the only topless mid-rear engined V12 supercar you can buy. While it’s not a true roadster in the Italian ‘barchetta’ (little boat) tradition - it’s actually a targa top, with two removable roof panels that can be stored in the front luggage compartment - it is the real deal in every other respect, with all the performance, all the brio and all the chassis high-tech of its hard-top sibling - and some extras of its own. Where the coupé has a sweeping roofline with a slightly recessed engine cover, the roadster has a deep, reinforced double bridge behind the seats that functions as roll-over protection for the occupants, with two buttresses running down to the rear in a mix of body colour and matte black, and engine cover panels either in matte black-painted carbon fibre or transparent, to show off the engine. The two quick-detachable roof panels, weighing less than six kilograms each, are moulded in carbon fibre, slightly convex to create a perfect transition from the curve of the windshield to the bridge buttresses at the rear - and provide a bit of extra headroom. They’re available in matte black or clear-lacquered carbon fibre, gloss black or, for the more conventional, body colour. The underside of the panels (which forms the head-liner when the panels are in place) is available in either black alcantara with carbon-fibre trim or a high-tech fabric, developed by Lamborghini, called Carbon Skin, that’s even lighter than alcantara Between the seats there’s an electrically operated vertical rear window, which functions as a draught excluder, reducing cabin noise and buffeting - or you can lower it at the press of a button to get the full benefit of the V12 soundtrack. The interior trim is available in three spec levels: There are five standard layouts, offering leather and alcantara in single and two-colour combinations with a range of stitching and trim options. Then you can add further exterior and interior packages such as ‘branding’ or ‘carbon fibre’ - or you can go to Lamborghini’s bespoke Ad Personam division and get practically any colour and trim combination you want. The show car is finished in a special Ad Personam colour called Blu Aegir, with side mirrors and windscreen frame in high-gloss carbon fibre and clear lacquered carbon-fibre bumpers, skirts, air intakes and cooling air outlets. The interior is also by Ad Personam, all leather in dark blue and white with with dark blue S-trim stripes on the seats and blue contrast stitching. The go to match the show The Aventador S roadster has all the technical features of the coupé and since it weighs only 50 kilograms more, the same performance. Its 6.5-litre V12 is rated for 544kW at 8400 revs and 690Nm at 5500rpm, driving all four wheels via a seven-speed robotised gearbox, four-wheel steering and active suspension. It'll hit 200km/h from a standing start in nine seconds flat and tops out at 350km/h. You had to ask The first customers will take delivery of the new Lamborghini Aventador S Roadster in February 2018, with prices starting at €313 666 (R4.82 milion) ex works. IOL Motoring
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter