Cape Town’s inaugural Golf Festival, arranged specifically to address the multiple challenges associated with seasonality and boost tourism numbers in the Western Cape during winter has been lauded as “a huge success”.
 
The event was a first in a series of key initiatives, organised by the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa (FEDHASA) Cape region. The association, along with the City of Cape Town, Cape Town Tourism, Wesgro and Accelerate Cape forms part of an initiative spearheaded by Mayor Patricia De Lille to assemble a Local Organising Committee (LOC) to combat seasonality in the province.
 
According to tournament organiser, Reg Ferreira the tournament was held on four city golf courses between 21st and 25th August. It commenced at the Royal Cape Golf Club on Monday 21st, followed by the Durbanville Golf Club and Clovelly GC on Tuesday and Thursday respectively, and culminated at the Milnerton Links Golf Club on Friday 25th August.
 
Ferreira says on day one 72 golfing enthusiasts participated in the event, followed by 128 on day two, 64 on day three and 92 on day four. He says midweek, golfers enjoyed a break from the golf course went to the Middelvlei Wine Farm for a braai.
 
“This tournament is a first for Cape Town and it’s here to stay. Our idea is to grow the Cape Town Golf Festival to the same magnitude of the Cape Town Cycle Tour and the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon and to drive visitors to the Mother City during winter,” Ferreira says.
 
Ferreira congratulated tournament winner – Khomotso Mdhuli from Polokwane on her achievement.
.
 
“Khomotso’s name will be commemorated as the inaugural winner of this tournament, when we look back decades from now, her name will be there, which is a proud moment for her and us,” he says.
 
Other projects arranged to curb seasonality will include the Halal Tourism Festival, driven by Cape Town Tourism, which will look at educating the industry on halal compliance in a bid to attract an influx from this emerging market to our region. In conjunction with these two key initiatives, Wesgro has also been mandated to focus on airlift, as a strategy to curb seasonality