And the one’s husband believes they don’t want to be found either because they are secret lovers. Sonet van Zyl, 50, and Amanda Henery, 41, vanished mysteriously from Bella Vista Street on 8 August and their cellphones have been off since 1pm that day. Sonet’s white Chevrolet LDV bakkie with a white canopy attached is also missing. Amanda’s husband Deon Henery, 52, says he believes his wife ran away with the neighbour because they are romantically involved. “She had a romantic relationship with the neighbour. I believe they packed their things and left,” he says. “Amanda was a housewife and the neighbour did not work either. When I got home from work on 8 August, they were gone. “They didn’t even leave a note or anything and their phones have been off since they disappeared. Amanda’s family is worried sick and we have declared both women missing at the Brackenfell SAPS.” Deon adds that his wife, who was married before, has a habit of disappearing and he thinks the women don’t want to be found. “This is not the first time Amanda has done this, it’s the third. I just want to know where she is,” he says. “The fact that they haven’t even called to give any indication they are OK frustrates me. I don’t think they will return home.” Deon reveals he and Amanda had been married for nine months, got divorced, but continued to live together for 12 years. “Last year July, we got married again because she had promised she was done with her things,” Deon says. Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, confirmed the disappearance. “Brackenfell SAPS seeks the assistance of the public in locating 41-year-old Amanda Henery of Bella Vista, Protea Heights, Brackenfell. “She left her home in an LDV Chevrolet with canopy and registration number CF 182 408 on 8 August, after an argument with her husband. “She packed her clothes and drove away. She is suspected to be travelling with her neighbour, Sonet van Zyl.” Anyone who can assist with information can contact Warrant Officer De Kock on 084 586 6027 or Deon at 063 628 2022. Daily News