I recently spoke to the mother and daughter team, who founded Glamore Cosmetics, about the latest spring make-up trends. Founder of the company, Dr Gael Baines, has a PhD from the University of Cape Town in medical biochemistry and worked at Tygerberg Medical School (Stellenbosch University) in the department of medical biochemistry for nine years. When Gael discovered that her 21-year-old daughter Emma had a sensitive and hypo-allergenic skin and would never be able to wear make-up, Gael was inspired to look for beauty products and make-up that are suited to hypoallergenic and sensitive skin types that are affordable. She found two brands that after testing on her daughter, there was no reaction, Hean Cosmetics and Oceanic Skincare, both from Poland. With this in mind, Glamore Cosmetics was born. Gael worked closely with the CTFA (Cosmetics Toiletries Fragrance Association of SA) to ensure that the ingredients in the
products are acceptable to the laws governing skincare products in South Africa. Gael believes that this spring the world of make-up and beauty is undergoing a make-under with less make-up and more fun.
“Spring 2017 make-up is all about glowing skin, fresh-faced beauty perhaps with a bold twist either eyes, lips or cheeks.”
“Try colours that you would not normally wear, for example if you always wear red lipstick, dab an orange or peach gloss over the top for a pop of brightness.
Pair it with lashings of blue-black mascara and eye-liner on your upper lid. “Try wearing a lighter coverage foundation and less heavy contouring for the day time. Sheer out your foundation using a face cream or a light primer, this can be done with your fingers, a sponge or a brush. “Start off your make-up by using a primer and then a strobe cream to lift the areas we highlight for a ‘lit from within look’.
“You can just use your fingers to blend the product on to the forehead, cheek bones, nose, chin and cupid’s bow.
“Then you can layer foundation over and apply blush and some extra shimmer to those high points. Add a lip balm or lip oil for a nourishing lip glow. “Apply a highlighter to the inner corners of the eyes and coat the lashes with black or brown mascara.
“For a beautiful luminosity that can work for day and night make-up, apply a powder highlighter on the eyelids for an unexpected glow.
“To take this look to the next level, add a tiny bit of clear gloss to the centre of the eyelids.” For more makeup tips go www.glamorecosmetics.co.za.