Los Angeles - Playboy founder Hugh Hefner, who helped usher in the 1960s sexual revolution with his groundbreaking men's magazine and built a business empire around his libertine lifestyle, died on Wednesday at the age of 91. Hefner peacefully passed away at his home, Playboy Enterprises said in a statement. Here are eight quotes from the long life of Hefner, once called the "prophet of pop hedonism" by Time magazine. "Much of my life has been like an adolescent dream of an adult life. If you were still a boy, in almost a Peter Pan kind of way, and could have just the perfect life that you wanted to have, that's the life I invented for myself." - Hefner to the Los Angeles Times in 1992. Also read: Hugh Hefner: the man who turned the world on to sex "We enjoy mixing up cocktails and an hors d'oeuvre or two, putting a little mood music on the phonograph and inviting in a female acquaintance for a quiet discussion on Picasso, Nietzsche, jazz, sex." - Editorial in the 1953 inaugural issue of Playboy. "Well, if we hadn't had the Wright brothers, there would still be airplanes. If there hadn't been an Edison, there would still be electric lights. And if there hadn't been a Hefner, we'd still have sex. But maybe we wouldn't be enjoying it as much. So the world would be a little poorer. Come to think of it, so would some of my relatives." - Hefner in a Playboy interview in 1974. "I think Hefner himself wants to go down in history as a person of sophistication and glamour. But the last person I would want to go down in history as is Hugh Hefner." - Ms. magazine founder Gloria Steinem, who worked as a bunny in a Playboy club in the 1960s. "Women are the major beneficiaries of getting rid of the hypocritical old notions about sex. Now some people are acting as if the sexual revolution was a male plot to get laid. One of the unintended by-products of the women's movement is the association of the erotic impulse with wanting to hurt somebody." - Hefner, in response to Steinem. "Part of the reason that I am who I am is my Puritan roots run deep. My folks are Puritan. My folks are prohibitionists. There was no drinking in my home. No discussion of sex. And I think I saw the hurtful and hypocritical side of that from very early on." - Hefner to the AP in 2011. "I've spent so much of my life looking for love in all the wrong places." - Hefner to the New York Times in 1992. "I've had a bachelor party for 30 years. Why do I need one now?" - Hefner on the eve of his marriage in 1989.