EuroNCAP has released its latest batch of crash test results, which feature many cars that are either already sold in South Africa, or which are destined for our shores in the not too distant future. These include the Ford Fiesta, Kia Picanto and Rio, Mazda MX-5, Jeep Compass, Opel Grandland X and Renault Koleos. In the compact class, Ford’s all-new Fiesta, which is due in South Africa next year, took full five-star honours, with commendable scores across all four categories, namely: Adult Occupant, Child Occupant, Pedestrian and Safety Assist. It’s worth keeping in mind, however, that these ratings are based on European-spec cars, and the safety features fitted to South African models could differ, thus affecting the score. The Kia Picanto was awarded three stars in standard specification guise, but this was largely due to a lack of active safety features that attempt to prevent crashes, rather than the actual protection offered in an accident. Even in three-star guise, the Picanto received a reassuring 79 percent for adult occupant protection. EuroNCAP awarded a four-star rating to the Picanto fitted with the optional safety pack, which includes an autonomous emergency braking system. The Kia Rio’s rating was also split between the standard version and one fitted with an optional safety pack, the former achieving a three-star rating, albeit with an excellent 85 percent for occupant protection. The safety pack, however, upped the overall rating to five stars. It’s all five-star sailing when we get to the compact-to-medium SUVs, where EuroNCAP awarded its full rating to four new products. The Mazda CX-5, which went on sale in SA earlier this year, achieved the highest adult occupant rating in the group, scoring 95 percent. The Jeep Compass, which is also bound for local shores, achieved a 90 percent adult occupant safety rating. Renault’s new Koleos, under consideration for SA, matched the Jeep for adult protection, but trailed it slightly in child and pedestrian marks. Another contender that’s set for our shores, early next year in fact, is Opel’s Grandland X, which joined its counterparts in gaining five overall stars, with an adult occupant score of 85 percent. IOL Motoring