We welcome dogs into our lives because they're lovable, loyal and fun to be around. Yet it also takes dedication, persistence and hard work from your side to ensure that your best friend is happy in its home. AsePETstore.co.za's Emma Savadier puts it: "It really is a privilege to be loved so unconditionally by your dog, and something everyone should experience. It’s important to remember that it’s our responsibility to give every dog the care it needs and deserves."
 
There’s no substitute for some sessions with a good dog trainer and lots of TLC, but there are some great Android apps that can give some handy tips about how to take care of your furry family member. Here’s Alcatel’s pick of the apps for dog lovers:
 
DoggyDo DoggyDo is designed for dog owners who enjoy taking their dogs with them wherever they go - a restaurant, on holiday, to a beach, or on a trail. This app will show you where your canine companion is welcome as well as provide you with some fun activities for you and your furchild to do together. Get it here: DoggyDo
 
Puppy Training This app rounds up some helpful tips for looking after your puppy, including training tips, finding an amazing vet and ideas about keep your puppy safe at home.
Get it here: Puppy Training
 
11pets: Pet care 11Pets: Pet Care helps absent-minded pet-owners to organise health records and medical data as well as to follow up on medical incidents. You are able to build a profile per pet and keep up to date with health checks.
Get it here: 11pets: Pet care
 
Pet First Aid - Red Cross The American Red Cross Pet First Aid app puts veterinary advice for everyday emergencies in the palm of your hand. Features include videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice. This app is very useful in emergencies when you need to act quickly and rushing to the vet isn’t an option.
Get it here: Pet First Aid – Red Cross
 
Dog Training Teach your dog new tricks with this simple to use application—sit, come, lie down and more.
Get it here: Dog Training
 
Dog Walk - Track your dogs! Record the route, distance and the duration of your daily walks to monitor the exercise your puppy gets each day. Take photos of your walks and share your great experiences with friends and family.
Get it here: Dog Walk - Track your dogs!