It’s time to invest in good sound quality for  music on the go. Marchelle Abrahams has a few suggestions. Remember that old beat-up hi-fi your parents brought out at family functions? Those speakers worked overtime when pumping out your favourite song. Never mind having to play around with the tempo and the bass to get just the right balance. Times they are a-changing. And it comes down to two words, Bluetooth speakers. Portable, robust and a decent battery life means you can take them just about anywhere. If you haven’t come around to the wonders of Bluetooth speakers yet, we’re here to convert you by showcasing some of the best products on the market right now. Bose Soundlink Mini Series II It’s hard to believe that a mini-speaker that fits in the palm of your hand can deliver on natural sound and deeper bass. It can connect wirelessly to your smartphone, tablet or other Bluetooth device. And, the best part is that the built-in speaker phone lets you take calls. The SoundLink Mini speaker II weighs just over 680g, living up to its compact, portable marketing sell. The only problem is its average battery life, which only delivers 10 hours of playtime. Price: R4 700 Shop it: www.takealot.com Marshall Stanmore Bluetooth The Stanmore active stereo speaker is a throwback to the golden days of rock & roll with its classic retro design. It works wirelessly via Bluetooth, or use the RCA input to plug in your hi-fi, or connect the coil cord to your phone using the auxiliary input. Most probably its best feature is its optical input cable which can be used for digital connections such as Apple TV. When it comes to music quality, nothing beats this compact speaker. It’s big on sound, even at high levels. Price: R5999 Shop it: superbalist.com UE Wonderboom Cnet’s David Carnoy called the UE Wonderboom a “waterproof mini-Bluetooth speaker that packs a punch”. It’s compact, completely waterproof and not too shabby when it comes to sound. Did we mention it floats on water and is shock-resistant? There’s also a pairing button that allows you to join two speakers to each other, resulting in more enhanced sound. Price: $99 (about R1300) Shop it: www.amazon.com JBL Pulse 2 The difference between this speaker and all others is its enhanced light show - perfect for a trance party for two, the JBL Connect technology can wirelessly link multiple JBL Connect-enabled speakers together to amplify the listening experience, and it has playback and speakerphone capabilities. Take note, it’s splash proof, but don’t go submerging it underwater. Price: R3499 Shop it: www.fitpulse.co.za Harman Kardon Go + Play 2 Resembling a boom box, this isn’t your typical mini-speaker. Bluetooth enables wireless streaming but it’s not suitable as a multiroom speaker. Its redeeming quality is its rocking bass. Price: R4390 Shop it: www.ultitron.co.za