Traffic chief Kenny Africa said two crashes happened in the area: one on Sunday when a driver lost control of his vehicle on the De Rust/Dysselsdorp intersection and landed on a railway line. Three people were killed. This followed a crash on Saturday when a three-car pile-up on the Oudtshoorn/De Rust area killed one person. In other areas, there were also casualties. Between Clanwilliam and Lambert’s Bay on Sunday, a truck drove over a car killing three people. The last two people to perish on Heritage Day were pedestrians: one killed along the N1 near the Rainbow Chicken Farms outside Worcester and the other on the N2 near Borcherds Quarry. “Any fatality on our roads is one too many. It was a long weekend and so many more vehicles were out on the road. “On a normal weekend, we have between four to 12 fatalities. The accidents that occurred this weekend were rare as it wasn’t attributed to reckless and negligent driving. “There was nothing we could have done about it.” Violent protest action in Strand also forced holidaymakers to use alternative routes. The protest action in Broadlands and Hazeldene caused traffic congestion from the morning until late afternoon. About 200 people were involved in demonstrations over a lack of service delivery, in which some burnt tyres and rubble was used to block roads. Seven days ago, the N2 outbound was closed at the same spot due to protest action. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said 19 people were arrested for alleged public violence yesterday. “The Lwandle protest action by the local community flared up and SAPS members took action to disperse the crowd “The SAPS and other law enforcement agencies are still on the scene. “The police presence will be maintained and the area will be monitored. A case of public violence has been registered for investigation.” Meanwhile, Stormers and Western Province rugby player Rynhardt Elstadt yesterday swerved to avoid a stationary vehicle and collided with debris along the N1. Western Province Rugby Football Union said the loose forward was not harmed. “There were no other people involved in the incident as the stationary vehicle had been abandoned. “He remained on the scene until the SAPS, ambulance services and the fire department had arrived and his vehicle had been towed away. “He will be filing a report at the Bellville Police Station for insurance purposes,” the union said. Cape Times