Pretoria - Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema said that the journey to getting his Honours degree had been a difficult one that had required sacrifices along the way. Malema said this following his graduation from the University of South Africa (Unisa) on Wednesday evening. Malema obtained his BA Honours Degree in Philosophy from the College of Human Sciences at the university's Pretoria campus. Malema, addressing the media after the ceremony, explained some of the sacrifices he had to make along the way. "I remember one particular occasion where I had to write an exam a day before the State of the Nation. I was not going to attend but when heard that President Jacob Zuma had deployed the army, I had to abandon that exam and go and lead from the front. "I was not going to allow an issue where members of the EFF were going to confront the soldiers while I was absent, using my exam as an excuse." He added that despite these challenges, it was possible when people created the time and reprioritize certain issues. Malema also touched on the passing of former ANC Youth League secretary Sindiso Magaqa, lashing out at the youth league for how it acted following news of his death. "I do not need the ANCYL's permission to attend his funeral, he was my friend. I will attend the funeral, if conditions allow," he said. "What is more painful is that those who kill you, will be the ones to preside over your funeral and use your funeral to popularise themselves." Malema was graduating for the second time from Unisa, having previously obtained his Bachelor's degree in 2016. Also present at the EFF leader's ceremony was his family, which included his wife Mantwa as well as his grandmother Sarah, the leadership of the EFF and party members. Meanwhile, fellow graduates were encouraged to use their qualifications for good and to better society. Praising them on their achievement, Professor Sabelo Mhlanga, presenting the Chancellor's address, also encouraged the new graduates to not just focus on getting jobs, but to also seek opportunities to create them. IOL