So expect to experience music performances, workshops, game arcades, pop-ups, installations, demos, pitches and parties. Perhaps the most encompassing aspect of the Fak’ugesi African Digital Innovation Festival is the conference, which takes place on September 14. The first keynote speaker is William Kentridge and the veteran artist’s speech is entitled “Enough and More Than Enough”. Another very interesting keynote speaker is Jepchumba. The phenomenal digital art pioneer will give a talk, entitled “The African Digital Renaissance, New Frontiers and Territories”. The day will also include panel discussions about the development and changes of virtual reality in Mzansi, as well as how the digital age has inspired cross-genre development. The latter is in partnership with Weheartbeat and will be facilitated by Spoek Mathambo,while the likes of international musos, Masego and Soulection’s Joe Kay, are on the panel. Muso Nonku Phiri is set to also take the stage at the Fak'ugesi Bloc Party happening on September 16. Weheartbeat also curates the last session of the day: “Future Beat Demos”. Here, artists will demonstrate a range of sounds in addition to a listening session by Hannah Faith. Our very own Nonku Phiri, Christian Tiger School and Petite Noir will also be on stage at the Fak’ugesi Bloc Party on September 16. On September 11 and 12, you can be a part of the Ani-Marathon where, for 28 hours, students and professionals will be challenged to duel as animation teams. Between September 13 and 16, A MazeJohannesburg makes its sixth annual appearance. Here, “African and international game developers, digital artists, forward thinkers, entrepreneurs and digital activists to South Africa (are invited) to exchange tools, skills, and ideas in the fields of independent games and playful media.” If it sounds like a lot to take in, that’s because it is. Which is why I recommend you get hold of the programme and start with the events that pique your curiosity the most and then take it from there.  *  The Fak’ugesi African Digital Innovation Festival takes place at The Tshimologong Precinct in Braamfontein from today to September 16. Visit fakugesi.co.za for the full programme.