The suspect from Mitchells Plain allegedly lured two girls to soccer fields in Strandfontein and Mitchells Plain under the pretence of teaching them the sport. John Daniels, 46, of Rocklands, was arrested on 11 September after two girls, a 13-year-old from Strandfontein and a 17-year-old from Beacon Valley, opened cases of rape and sexual assault against him. Daniels is a crime-fighter for the Rocklands Neighbourhood Watch and was involved in the search of Elsies River murder victim Courtney Pieters, three, among others. Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, says the first alleged incident took place at the Strandfontein Sports Field. He allegedly lured the 13-year-old girl to a locker room and raped her. The 17-year-old girl had been running at a sports field in Mitchells Plain where Daniels allegedly forced himself on top of her and rubbed himself up against her. “A case of rape and sexual assault is under investigation and the suspect, a soccer coach, has been arrested and has appeared in court on the said charges,” explains Van Wyk. “His next court appearance is on 12 October at the Mitchells Plain Magistrates’ Court.” Daniels is being incarcerated at Pollsmoor Prison and is yet to apply for bail. Daniels was a volunteer coach for Bayview United where his son is a player. Yesterday, the club’s spokesperson, Mark Rodrigues, confirmed they were aware of the allegations against Daniels, but said there was no girls’ division. Police sources close to the investigation explained how the alleged sex attacks took place: “The suspect was a soccer coach and it is alleged that whilst playing soccer, he chased the 17-year-old and when she fell, he placed his hands inside her pants. She pushed him off and he let go. “In the case of the 13-year-old girl, he allegedly lured her to the locker room where he placed his penis into her vagina at Strandfontein Sports Ground.” Rocklands Neighbourhood Watch secretary, Theresa Motto, says Daniels will not be suspended until the investigation is complete. “We are heartsore and disappointed that he is being accused. We have not suspended him yet; not until the investigation is completed. He is innocent until proven guilty.” Rodrigues says they have removed Daniels as a volunteer coach. “We need to make it clear that there is no female soccer club and that he is a parent of one of the kids in the team,” he says. “The club is nowhere involved in this matter. We consulted with the board and removed him as a member.” Daily Voice