Durban - Formula 4 racing driver Jordan Sherratt, of Durban, extended a helping hand to victims of Hurricane Harvey, which lashed the US over the past week, by donating a portion of his winnings from the F4 US Championship. Sherratt, 18, based in Dallas, said the championship racing was under way at the Virginia International Raceway last weekend when the hurricane first hit Texas. Sherratt was on the podium after having won one race and being placed second and third in other races and said: “As I stand up here to accept this cheque, my engineer’s home is flooding from the heavy rains. So many people who have helped me win are suffering right now. “I want to give back to the state which has welcomed me.” Sherratt and fellow racing driver Dakota Dickerson, of San Diego, donated part of their winnings to the American Red Cross Relief Fund. Speaking to The Independent as heavy rain lashed Louisiana, with the flooding leaving many homeless across Texas, Sherratt said his engineer could not get home straight away because flights were cancelled. “He had to change his flight to go to Dallas so he could get home, but he was always in contact with his family. “The impact of Hurricane Harvey is pretty big, from watching the emotions on my engineer’s face as it was unfolding to seeing all the stories of people who have been killed. “Texas is like my second home. It’s just a great place with good people. America is coming together to fix this tragic event.” Growing up in Durban, Sherratt went to school in uMhlanga and attended Glenwood High School before leaving after Grade 9, as his racing schedule became so busy and he changed to online schooling. He went to the US when he was 16, and started kart racing. “I got introduced to racing by my dad when I was 6 years old as he used to race and still does. And I’ve been hooked since. I think it’s the adrenalin, competitiveness and just going fast is what I love about the sport.” Racing in Round 5 of the American championships last weekend, Sherratt said the racing was tough and he managed to win the most points. His goal is to get to Indycar and possibly Formula 1. At home in Durban this week, his mother, Felicity, said: “Jordan has the biggest heart. He loves his family and has amazing friends. He is not shy to show his feelings and is affectionate. Our entire family are so proud of him. His dad, Gary, his brother Cody and I are just so overwhelmed with his achievements and the young man he has become.” Sports Car Club of America Pro Racing vice-president Steve Oseth described the gesture as a “selfless act” and called on fans to match the donations or to volunteer or give blood to the American Red Cross. The Independent on Saturday