Giving a clear definition of South Africa's heritage is impossible. With the diverse cultures, ethnicities and races that exist in this country, one can never clearly define its "heritage". Therefore, when South Africans, especially now in the modern age, celebrate and define heritage, they do it in a creative, innovative way. They even go as far as to say that they are African, instead of South African. READ:David Tlale's #TheInternSA boasts drama, quality
Consequently, when we celebrate our heritage, we not only celebrate what represents each individual, we celebrate what makes us South African. What is being South African? Is it not embracing all the different cultures, ethnicities and races that exist in this beautiful country? We are after all, diverse. During our heritage month, Resolution Circle aims to celebrate being South African, starting with a brand we house in our building, the Soul Art Foundation. Birthed on the streets of Soweto in 2010, the Soul Art Foundation was established by Sibusiso Brian Mokhachane. Unemployment and the use of drugs in his community led Brian to developing, building up and inspiring young people in Soweto through his art. Over the years, he has worked with the youth in his community to hone their skills and showcase their creativity. The Soul Art Foundation joined Resolution Circle in 2016 as one of the Jozi My Beginning winners. They are currently utilising our textile processing tech-station, which boasts great sewing, embroidery and over locker machines; everything they need to manufacture their world-class bags.  Resolution Circle created a horizontal ecosystem where innovation can come to life in the research and development infrastructure, which was designed to provide commercial prototyping services that include small-scale manufacturing. The foundation produces custom clothing, contemporary art, photography, customised stationery, and other forms of art you can think of. However, the most beautiful thing that we at Resolution Circle would like to celebrate is their luggage. The material used embodies our heritage in all its beauty. It makes it possible for us to carry and showcase our cultural heritage. READ:Minnie, Quinton wed in fine style Their versatile bags are made out of the Seanamarena (Sotho) blanket, umbhaco (Xhosa) fabric, the Kente (native to South Ghana) fabric, the Masai Shuka and every other fabric that personifies South Africa. Who would not want to walk around with a piece of Africa on their back every day? You can get yourself a bag, or two, at one of these stores: 27 Boxes in Melville, Neighbourgoods Market in Braamfontein, Arts On Main at the Maboneng Precinct, the Watershed Waterfront in Cape Town and on their online store - rhtconline.com