CAPE TOWN – The Mother City’s two PSL clubs are braced for a daunting yet exciting challenge when they tackle the might of Soweto this week. Ajax Cape Town are first up on Tuesday night when they take on Orlando Pirates at Orlando Stadium (7.30pm kickoff). Then, on Wednesday, it’s Cape Town City’s turn as they host Kaizer Chiefs at Cape Town Stadium (also 7.30pm). There’s certainly a sense of déjà vu for Ajax, in that they haven’t started well over the last few seasons. This time, it’s no different – and head coach Stanley Menzo would have used the international break to motivate and energise the squad. Both Pirates and Ajax have under-performed of late, which should make for an interesting clash on Tuesday. Both will be desperate to get back on track. For Ajax, it’s the start of an era without brilliant young central defender Rivaldo Coetzee. The 20-year-old has transferred to Mamelodi Sundowns. Moving forward now, especially in light of the Pirates encounter tomorrow, Menzo has a tough decision to make with regards to who becomes the first-choice pairing in the centre of defence. He has options – Roscoe Pietersen, Isaac Nhlapo, Junaid Sait, Tercious Malepe and Mario Booysen. Booysen, 29, came through the Ajax youth academy before going on to play for Bloemfontein Celtic, Maritzburg United, SuperSport United and Sundowns. Now, back at the club where it all first started, he’s ready to make a contribution. “It’s good to be back,” said Booysen. “To be honest, not much has changed; a lot of people who were at Ajax when I left are still working here, which makes it easier to settle in. “What is different is that I am more experienced. I left as a youngster, but I do know the system.” PSL Fixtures Tuesday: SuperSport v Platinum Stars, Orlando Pirates v Ajax Cape Town (Orlando Stadium, 7.30pm), Polokwane City v Celtic, Chippa v Baroka, AmaZulu v Maritzburg. Wednesday: Wits v Golden Arrows, Cape Town City v Kaizer Chiefs (Cape Town Stadium, 7.30pm). @Reinerss11  Cape Argus