Komani - A 55-year-old woman accused of fatally stabbing a man and wounding two others after finding them allegedly raping her daughter does not regret what she did “to save her daughter." The woman found three men allegedly raping her 27-year-old daughter at an unoccupied house at Zwartwater near Komani on Saturday. This after the friend of her daughter alerted her of the alleged crime. “When I arrived I asked them (the men) what they were doing because they were all naked with one of them busy raping my daughter,” she said. “I was armed with a knife to protect myself. I stabbed the first one, stabbed the second one and also stabbed the third while he was trying to run away,” said the woman in a telephonic interview with Independent Media. The woman may not be named to protect the identity of the daughter. One of the men, Mncedisi Vuba, 27, died whilst two brothers from Qumbu Location in Zwartwater survived the alleged stabbing and are still in hospital. It is believed they are soon to be discharged. The woman said she stabbed these men because she was worried of what could have happened to her daughter. “Who knows? Maybe she could have been killed after the rape ordeal!" After the alleged stabbing incident the woman was arrested and appeared before the Komani Magistrate’s Court on Monday where she was released on R500 bail. She will appear in court again on October 8. In a statement on Wednesday, United Democratic Movement Women's Organisatio (Udemwo) said it stood in support of the woman, "not because she killed the perpetrator, but because we believe her life, together with her daughter, was under threat. Any mother would have done the same if they found themselves in this kind of situation. "We do not condone the actions of the community taking the law into their hands but understanding and knowing that women are under siege in the hands of those familiar to them, we understand the situation. If she did not defend herself, she could have been the one killed by the perpetrators," said Udemwo General-Secretary Thandi Nontenja. ILISOLEZWE