The Majiet family said the bill had largely been racked up by the previous owner of their small holding and it had resulted in their water supply being cut many times, and only restored when the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) intervened. Family representative Rafiqah Majiet said: “When my late grandpa bought the property in 2005, there was no water and we never received a bill for two years. “He and my uncle were going back and forth to the City to clarify the matter but were getting nowhere. “Only in the second year did they receive their first bill and that was when they discovered that it was still listed in the previous owner’s name.” However, mayoral spokesperson Zara Nicholson said: “The account of the previous owners was up to date. So, the current owners are not carrying any debt from the previous owners. The debt owed is theirs. “This ongoing matter is being investigated by the SAHRC.” Read: Family battling city over R1m water bill that's not theirs Nicholson said extensive engagements had been ongoing with the account holder for years. “Since September 2015 there was no payment until September 2017,” she said. Nicholson said the debt of R1 213 357m was not only for water but also rates, sewage, refuse, interest and collection charges. “Due to the history of non-payment and bad performance in respect of the debt processes, the account was handed over, and legal collection actions are currently in process to enforce the settlement of the debt,” she said. But family representative Suaad Salie said: “It is not entirely our bill, the previous owner’s debt has collected interest. I am sure we are liable for some of the costs but not the whole bill.” Salie said the family had not paid for the past two years because “all our payments were only going to the arrears and the matter was not being clarified”. Nicholson also said the water supply was cut after various meter-tampering instances were found. “We did tamper with the meter, because we had no choice, there was no water and we have babies here and all the times we’ve approached them about this matter, nobody has helped us,” said Salie. SAHRC spokesperson Gail Smith said their investigation was ongoing.  nicola.daniels@inl.co.za  Cape Times