On Saturday, Ramaphosa’s campaign trail hit Sebokeng in the Vaal, where he called for unity in the party’s strife-torn province, KwaZulu-Natal, the biggest structure by numbers. The deputy president told his supporters at the ANC Sedibeng mini-rally in the Soul Tsotetsi Sports Centre they had to choose leaders who would take the country’s economy forward. The ANC will hold its crucial elective conference in December, during which Ramaphosa will square up with former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Dlamini Zuma was on Saturday attending the funeral of former ANC Youth League secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa. Ramaphosa said it was time for change. “We want leaders who will bring change and take the country forward. We don’t want leaders who will not bring change. We want leaders who will make sure the ANC will put its people first,” he said. “We want leaders who are also going to take our economy forward. This is up to you. It is up you to elect the ANC that will win the elections in 2019.” Ramaphosa also pleaded with sup-
porters to unite the ANC in KZN following divisions that have been deepened by a recent court case that nullified the election of the province’s executive committee. “I’m saying we must unite as the ANC. We must unite the KZN ANC to be one thing so that we can be a strong ANC going to 2019. “If we put our people in South Africa first, then we will get over 75% in 2019. If the ANC puts its people first, then we will win the 2019 elections.” Ramaphosa was optimistic about the elections. “The talking time is over. Now is the time to implement the policy of the ANC. We are heading towards December and we will draft the policies and implement them." “I am done with 2017. I’m done with December 2017. I am looking forward to 2019. The ANC will win,” he said. Ramaphosa was also endorsed by the region’s Congress of SA Students (Cosas). Sedibeng Cosas regional chairperson Bhekizizwe Molefe believes the deputy president would bring a “much-needed change” as a president. “I believe that Ramaphosa can bring change because he speaks about unity. We need a leader who will stand firm and take South Africa forward, not just alone but united. “I also believe he can help us with educational transformation because, as Cosas, we are fighting for equal education. We believe that Ramaphosa is the leader who can help us to fight this struggle.” Gertrude Hloahloa, 64, who lives in Sebokeng, also believes in Ramaphosa. “He is going to bring a change because he is very strict. He is very responsible and he always monitors things. “He will even demand a reason to use money. That is why I believe that he is going to lead and take South Africa forward. “I can tell you that he will fix every mess in our societies,” she said. Political Bureau