In December 2017, Lalesso celebrates its ten year anniversary. In reflecting over the past ten years partnerships, collaborations and the stories therein are consistent highlights of the adventure it’s been inspired by this, we are celebrating our anniversary by inviting ten brands to collaborate with us to create ten unique products. The project will produce only ten ‘limited edition’ units of each of the ten designs resulting in a total of 100 limited edition pieces with the theme of sustainability, Africa and summer. Each of the ten Collaborations are a marriage and reflection of both brands creating and sharing ten new stories whilst honouring Lalesso’s ten year journey. READ:Bonang Matheba & David Tlale jets off to Paris The celebration will launch on Thursday 14th December 2017 at the guild, Silo District, Cape Town for an invite only event. The products will be available to purchase exclusively at the guild thereafter as Well as online via www.lalesso.com. Pichulik We first collaborated with Katherine-Mary in 2012, both on the runway and with a range of bags. The vibrancy of Lalesso and Pichulik are a match made in kaleidoscopic heaven; sharing the essence of African heritage and a bold design aesthetic. The Lalesso x Pichulik 10 year celebration collaboration marries Lalesso print with Pichulik embellishments to create an innovative bag design. Made from a sustainable hemp linen blend fabric with a print from the Lalesso Spring Summer 2012 collection, the bag is adorned with Pichulik’s chunky leather tassels with rope and beading along the bag base with a trademark Pichulik style rope handle. Wild Earth Botanics Honest, Pure, Natural; the fundamental principles of Kenyan born and based luxury skin care label, Wild Earth Botanics. Using only the finest, natural and sustainably harvested ingredients their products are kind to your body and to the Earth encouraging a symbiosis between humans and nature. The Lalesso x Wild Earth Botanics collaboration is a hand carved mango wood travel case containing a set of 5 tropical oils; Moringa, Neem, Baobab,  acadamia and Coconut. The oil droppers feature Masaai beading detail inspired by palettes and designs of Lalesso prints. Temple of Reason A brand born out of the concept of collaboration, Temple of Reason is the man for Lalesso’s woman! A mutual love for African summer sees the Lalesso x Temple of Reason story come together like sand and sunscreen. This collaboration marries Lalesso prints, one from each of the ten years, onto Temple of Reason’s classic mens swim shorts. Each of the ten limited edition pieces is one of a kind. Soko Soko Kenya is an eco and ethical production facility in Kenya - a garment manufacturing alternative to cheap fast fashion from the East. Soko is Lalesso’s oldest partnership, going back to 2009 when Soko started to produce Lalesso garments. Following considerable company growth, Soko founded ‘The Stitch Academy’ - a training institution where graduates are able to get a job in the factory afterwards. The Lalesso brand was founded with a trademark handkerchief hem skirt design made using traditional khangas bought from the markets in Mombasa. The Lalesso x Soko Kenya collaboration sees ten of the original skirt designs being made by students at The Stitch Academy using the original traditional khangas we started the brand with 10 years ago. House of Gozdawa Each House of Gozdawa scent is developed by founder Agata Karolina who crafts high quality epicene perfume using only natural essential oils and carriers. Inspired by tropical summer the Lalesso x House of Gozdawa scent encapsulates exactly that. The ten limited edition 50ml bottles of perfume are packaged in traditional Kenyan materials and textures which include a mango wood lid and coconut basket weave container. Hadithi Hadithi meaning ‘A Story’ in Swahili is a grass roots project working with women in rural communities in Kenya. Hadithi supports and promotes the skills and livelihoods of these people through social empowerment. Lalesso has been working with Hadithi for over 3 years on various creative ethical  projects. The 10 year celebration Lalesso x Hadithi collaboration design features a hand made, naturally died sisal basket which we have reinterprited into a rucksack with leather detail and Lalesso print lining. Inspired by Lalesso prints, all the baskets are a unique colour combination making each of the ten limited edition pieces one of a kind. Dear Rae Dear Rae brings a unique energy and aesthetic to jewellery design. With a high standard of craftsmanship, their approach is feminine, fun, light and inspirational. The Lalesso x Dear Rae ten year celebration collaboration piece looks at symbolisms of the numeral ten, incorporating these into a jewellery piece which carries the essence of both brands. The parallel lines in the brass bangles, a set of two, are the Mayan symbol for ten. One of the brass bangles has ten notches on it whilst the other is a hammered texture, combining the pattern and texture rich nature of Lalesso print design whilst the design invokes Dear Rae’s distinct theme of ‘play’, twisting and swapping the pair around to create various shapes and forms. Hemporium Cape Town based Hemporium is a pioneer in its field; encouraging the diverse range of uses for hemp from food to building to skin care to clothing. The Lalesso x Hemporium collaboration is a custom Lalesso printed hemp canvas hammock. Trimmed with trademark Lalesso tassels and contrast colour ropes. The hammock is a perfect reflection of the ten year collaboration  celebration theme representing Africa, summer and sustainability. READ:Pichulik's Harvest: A Homage to the natural 20eight Architects by training, artists by talent. 20eight designers manipulate the norm into the impossible; their design principles are an illicit relationship of fundamental thoughts driven by a collaborative force of functionalism, idealism and passion. Reinterpriting 20eight’s award winning sunglasses design with African flare; inspired by colours in Lalesso prints, the Lalesso x 20eight design incorporates Masaai beading into the innovative concrete frames and colour to the 3D printed arms. The sunglasses are packaged in a hand carved mango wood tubular casing. Yswara Yswara harnesses ancient African knowledge in collecting the world’s largest selection of fine African teas. Each blend is a creation by founder Swaady. Guided by the Ubuntu philosophy  “I am because we are”. The luxury brand coined the term “Luxe Ubuntu” which is manifested in the spirit of kinship and is upheld by the ideals of compassion, dignity, harmony and humanity. The Lalesso x Yswara collaboration is a tea and candle set; featuring “Askia of Songhai” a blend with summer inspired notes of Rooibos, Pineapple and Kola Nut. The set features luxury custom Lalesso printed packaging with Yswara’s signature rose gold foiling.