Kiss and don’t tell is a thing of the past, as women have confessed they love dissecting and discussing their most intimate moments with their girlfriends. A recent study has narrowed down the talking points to the 7 topics that will be analysed without fail in conversations between sexually active women. The study, conducted by Victoria Milan, asked 8 407 of its active female members from 21 countries what they take notes on during sex to talk about with their girlfriends later on. Men can be certain that each and every time they take a woman to bed that the following 7 topics will be discussed. Duration of the encounter is always a hot topic of conversation for women from Belgium, Finland and Norway. Timing is everything, and she will have been observing the amount of time it took him to approach her and to ask her to come home with him right down to the minutes, hours or days they spent in the bedroom. How long did he spend on foreplay and if they had sex more than once, what was his recovery time? Size is a hot topic, but the less-well-endowed will be relieved to know it’s not the make or break of the bedroom rating a woman will give you. The size of a man’s penis is the first thing women from Ireland, Poland and South Africa and will ask their girlfriends, and if it wasn’t the right size, what’s important is how he made up for it. Technique with fingers, tongues and spending time ensuring she is fully satisfied will count for more than massive size. Manscaping is a massive topic of conversation for women from United States, Australia and Denmark – they will be checking to see whether a man is trimmed, waxed, shaved, styled or au naturel from the top of his head to the tips of his toes. Getting it right down there is all a matter of personal preference but the ladies tell us a good way to think about it is: what you prefer in others should be reflected on yourself. Women from France, Spain and United Kingdom tell us the words said to a woman before you get her to bed are important, but what about the words whispered once you’re between the sheets? Was he commanding in bed? Was he sweet? Did he tell you he loved you in the first five minutes? Was there nervous chatter, or complete silence? All of this will be taken into account – and repeated to a gaggle of girlfriends – after the event. Smell and taste are significant factors for all women, but are the #1 topic for analysis for women from Switzerland, Austria and Sweden. Was he a smoker, drinking something strong or did he brush his teeth before taking her to bed? Was his skin salty, sweet, sweaty? Had he taken care to ensure he was clean and ready for her or did he assume she would go down regardless of the fact he’d come straight from work to the date and beyond? Each and every detail is taken into account – and gents would be well advised to take a quick shower if they want their lover to be generous in bed. A man’s desperation and the need to have her right here, right now will definitely be the #1 topic of conversation among women from Netherlands, New Zealand and Hungary but of course – gents should ensure their audience is open to the idea of a restaurant bathroom or a public park on the walk home. Sometimes the fact that it started in the hallway and ended up on the kitchen floor is enough. A man’s stamina is of extreme importance to women from Germany, Italy and Czech Republic who will be mesmerised by, and memorising, how hard her man is, and how long he stays that way for her. As unsatisfying as it might be if a guy can’t get hard after drinking too much or pure nerves, the girl might not be so upset because knows this is going to be a great story for the girls tomorrow. This survey was conducted in 21 countries: Sweden, Australia, New Zealand, Austria, Denmark, Belgium, Finland, Spain, Norway, Poland, France, Italy, Hungary, United States, Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Czech Republic, Switzerland and South Africa.