Durban - Essence Festival Durban and its multitude
of events converge on the city during South Africa’s beautiful spring
season and Heritage and Tourism Month. The city is creating a six-day,
multi-faceted festival experience that will include several interactive pavilions and
two major concerts; Durban Business Fair; Beauty and Style; Essence Eats (incorporating
Flavours of Durban and I Heart Market ); Articulate Africa (book and art fair);
Money and Power (Durban Business Conference, Youth Economic Empowerment, Women
Economic Empowerment); Lifestyle & Wellness Expo; Property Summit; Tech
Zone; Centre Stage; Empowerment Stage; Essence All Star Concert and Essence All
Star Gospel Concert. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Durban will come alive as the city hosts this all-encompassing festival
under the theme: Firing Africa with Inspiration. The international festival
brings the best of local and international business leaders, speakers and
talent to Durban ICC from September 26 to October 1. Essence Festival Durban, which takes place
in conjunction with the Durban Business Fair, brings together voices of
influence and power from around the globe and connects with local business communities.
While celebrating excellence, it provides platforms of inspiration to the youth
and women through motivational sessions with cultural and business luminaries. The core focus of the festival is on
empowerment by enabling emerging entrepreneurs to access market opportunities. Last
year the festival drew more than 61 000 attendees from across the country. The
festival mosaic programme consists of Durban Business Fair, business
conferences, business masterclass, youth entrepreneurship, women economic
empowerment, health and lifestyle, beauty and style and empowerment stages,
which will continue to provide an invaluable platform for businesses to network
and build relationships with international experts in order for local business
to be globally competitive. The 2017 Essence Festival Durban programme
is diverse, informative, thought-provoking and features a wide range of talent -
from US Bishop TD Jakes and Reverend
Al Sharpton to Jill Scott and a number of South African and Durban artists and business people who will
feature in various platforms. Tickets to the Essence All Star Music
Festival featuring Jill Scott, Nasty C and Micasa are available from R155.
Tickets to the All Star Gospel Concert featuring Bishop TD Jakes and Joyous
Celebration are available from R195. Tickets are available at Computicket. www.essencefestivaldurban.com #essencefestivaldurban