DURBAN - A report released by the United Nations (UN) Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development says that broadband will play an important role in development. According to the report broadband technologies today are a driving significant transformation in lots of sectors that are related to development such as health, food security, financial inclusion and education. Therefore broadband will play a key role in achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are:
No Poverty
Zero Hunger
Good Health and Well Being
Quality Education
Gender Equality
Clean Water and Sanitation
Affordable and Clean Energy
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Reduced Inequalities
Sustainable Cities and Communities
Responsible Consumption and Production
Climate Action
Life Below Water
Life on Land
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Partnerships for the Goals Digital technology and ICTs (information communication technology) offer big opportunities to help enhance the lives of people and improve development results. They also help achieve three of the goals mentioned above. The report details the many ways that technology and ICTs are improving food security and putting an end to hunger; helping to improve health and well being and securing quality education that is inclusive for everyone. Technology related to broadband are effective tools to promote nutrition including improving agriculture systems, bettering flexibility of food systems that could be affected by the economy or the climate and helping to improve knowledge of food choices. Health in relation to technology have been important to improve the health of people in the past two decades. Now there has been a shift from making eHealth a small part of healthcare to making it central to strategic health planning. Broadband can serve as the support for future health systems by providing national eHealth strategies. Broadband and ICT’s can be used in health sector to train health professionals through e-learning, connect distant communities with clinics and introduce electronic medical records. Education in association with broadband can be used to boost education systems, increase access to information and drive learning. The report states that ICT’s must be implemented into planning, curriculum, teacher training and schools.
 
-BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE