There is much to see and do for less than R100 per a person. Clinton Moodley picks his top 10: Rondevlei Nature Reserve Where: : Perth Rd & Fishermens Walk, Zeekoei Vlei, Cape Town,
Price: R12 adults, R6 (children above the age of 3 to 17 and pensioners)
Contact:: 021 706 2404 Did you know that Rondevlei Nature Reserve is the only nature reserve in Cape Town that has hippos. The nature reserve makes for a perfect day visit. It is home to 230 bird species and a variety of reptiles and mammals. Families can also enjoy picnic, visit the museum and two lookout towers. Company Gardens Where: 19 Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town Central, Cape Town
Price: Free entry. 
Contact: 021 426-1357 Known as the oldest garden in Cape Town, Company Gardens has beautiful spots for one to enjoy the magnificent beauty of the Mother City. It also has a rose garden, Japanese garden, fish pond and aviary.  It is close to places like the South African Museum, the Planetarium and the South African Art Gallery. Imhoff Farm Where: Kommetjie Rd, Imhoff's Gift, Cape Town
Price: 
Contact: 021 783 4545 or email info@imhofffarm.co.za Fancy a camel ride? Well Imhoff Farm is the place to visit to get one. This historical Cape farmstead offers something special for everyone in your family to enjoy. It’s old world, original, beautifully situated, full of fun and tranquil. Some of the activities one can enjoy include horseback riding, a wine show, sushi restaurant and a fun place to have kiddies parties. Bay Harbour market
Where: 31 Harbour Market, Hout Bay, Cape Town
Price:  Free entrance. 
Contact: 083 275 5586 At Bay Harbour Market, a melting pot of cultures join together to engage in banter, good food and music. One can easily spend an entire day at the market with over 120 stalls of food, clothes and top bands on offer. There are wooden jungle gyms for children. Wine tasting at Durbanville Hills Where: Tygerberg Valley Rd, Cape Farms, Cape Town, 7550
Price: From R60pp
Contact: 021 558 1300 Durbanville Hills is one of the best places to have a glass of wine while enjoying its vast beautiful mountains and vineyards. The tasting is delightful, with one choosing between a normal pairing, one with biltong and one with chocolate. There is an in house restaurant if you keen on having breakfast or lunch. Have a traditional Ethiopian experience Where: 41 Church Street, 
Corner Long & Church Street, 
Price: From R30.
Contact:021 424 5722 Addis in Cape provides  a unique Ethiopian experience. They strive to showcase Ethiopia’s rich history and traditions and have gone to great lengths to ensure guests dining experience is as authentically Ethiopian as possible. From the traditional furnishings and the classic Ethiopian coffee ceremony to the serving of food itself, its a place to experience Cape Town x Ethiopia in one setting. Take a stroll through V&A Where: V & A Waterfront, Cape Town, 8001
Price: Free entry
Contact: 021 408 7600 The V&A Waterfront is another iconic spot. One can literally spend the whole day enjoying its facilities. From strolling through the mall, watching the boats leave for Robben Island to dining at their budget friendly restaurants, this Cape Town destination has it all. Hike Where: Table Mountain or Lion’s Head A hike in Cape Town is a must when you visit and the best part is that it does not cost anything. Many travellers choose to do a trek up Table Mountain, which saves them R250 if they had gone with the cable car.  Another popular hiking spot is Lion’s head. Besides the trek up, the views from top are ones to cherish. The Old Biscuit Mill Address: 375 Albert Rd, Woodstock, Cape Town, 7915Price: Free entry. Phone: 021 447 8194 The Mill is home to day and night markets, office space, a range of workshops and designer stores, farm stalls, restaurants as well as an inspiring line-up of festivals and productions. Simon’s Town  Price: Entry free. Simon’s Town is enough to make you swoon. Its beaches and penguins and whales attract people to this town in Cape Town. Nestled on False Bay within easy distance of Cape Town International Airport, Simon’s Town  is rich in history and culture. Make sure you visit Boulder’s Beach to see the penguins.  