The Free State has much to offer travellers, from cultural, historical and culinary adventures. With an offering so large, you will never be bored. If you are adventurous, why not try the following:
 
Be a culture vulture Nothing says travelling like a visit to a cultural village that is filled with historic gems and showcases the culture of certain tribes and its people. At Basotho Cultural Village, guests will get a deeper understanding of the lifestyle of the South Sotho people. 
 
Towns like Clarens and Parys prove tourist gems Whether it's food or art, these two towns have brought many travellers to its doors. Clarens, known as the ‘Jewel of the Eastern Free State is located on the of the Maluti Mountains in the Free State. Here one can visit the Clarens Craft Brewery, take in the sights at the Maluti viewpoint or go mountain biking. 
Parys, the Afrikaans translation of Paris, is a town situated on the banks of the Vaal River in the Free State province. Enjoy abseiling, art classes or go on a 4x4 expedition. 
 
Taking in the views Witsieshoek Mountain Lodge, believed to be around 2286m above sea level, offers great views over the Northern Drakensberg mountains. Visitors will get a glimpse of the Qwa Qwa region around Witsieshoek Mountain Lodge that is inhabited by members of the Batlokoa chiefdom. If you lucky, you may just have an opportunity to learn traditional art and craft or visit a local church.
 
Historic Vredefort Dome, is the world's largest and oldest known meteorite impact site. This UNESCO World Heritage Site in Northern Free State is believed to have struck earth two billion years ago. Scientists gauge that the meteorite was 10km in diameter, larger than South Africa's Table Mountain. According to the South African Tourism website, it is estimated the impact vaporised 70 cubic kilometres of rock, leaving a 300km-diameter crater. This crater is now visible by a ring of hills, northwest of the impact point, called the Vredefort Hills. Visitors can enjoy an array of activities including hiking, horse riding, abseiling and canoes around Vredefort Dome. See the big cats The big cats are fascinating creatures. At Dell Cheetah Sanctuary one can get up close and personal to one and learn more about them. 
Located on the Farm Vaal Rock, approximately 10 km outside the town of Parys, the centre was founded in 2009 by Estelle and Pieter Kemp as part of their ongoing commitment to cheetah conservation. Find out more about their reinforcement project once there.