Durban - Outspoken ANC MP Makhosi Khoza fears she may be “gunned down” while dealing with a disciplinary hearing brought against her by her KwaZulu-Natal provincial colleagues.
She spoke about her fears only hours after two bodyguards of a senior KZN ANC party leader were fired after a video surfaced of them threatening to kill someone.
Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker told the media yesterday three firearms had been confiscated from the men to be sent for ballistic testing to see if they had been used in any crimes.
Yesterday, Khoza said the ANC was being “extremely unreasonable” in expecting her to attend her disciplinary hearing at 3pm tomorrow.
Provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said yesterday that he was “not sure about the actual time but disciplinary committee meetings usually start at 9am”.
“Who goes to a hearing at 3pm on a Sunday?” Khoza asked. I am fighting with them over time. 
“I wrote to (ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe) and he said he couldn’t help me. I have written to KZN (leadership) and they said 3pm, they don’t want to change it,” she said.
“I am worried about safety issues in KZN; Magaqa is not even buried yet,” she said.
Former ANC youth league secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa died on Monday, reportedly from wounds he sustained when he was shot in July. He was a PR councillor from Umzimkhulu at the time of the shooting. 
Two other councillors were shot along with Magaqa, but survived.
The KZN ANC has come under heavy criticism from witnesses testifying at the Moerane Commission, which was established last year to investigate political violence in the province.
According to Khoza, there was “a pattern of people getting gunned down” in the province when returning from meetings. She said that if the hearing took place at 3pm the party was increasing the chances of her being “gunned down”.  
“When I leave there it will be dark. That will put my life in even more danger.” 
Khoza said she did have private security but would not say how many bodyguards would accompany her. 
“But what is my private security to those guys?” she asked. She said she would attend the hearing but was hoping for a more reasonable time.
The video of two gun-toting bodyguards assigned to ANC eThekwini region secretary Bheki Ntuli was an unfortunate incident that fed perceptions of KwaZulu-Natal being unstable, according to ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma. “You can’t play with guns, even if it is done in what looks like a joking manner,” said Zuma.
The video started circulating on social media on Wednesday night and showed the bodyguards brandishing handguns and an AK47 and saying: “It’s coming down for the dog, the dog will die today.”
“It’s an unfortunate situation, something that we don’t want to see,” said Zuma.
“We are trying very hard to stabilise the province and this doesn’t assist. It’s as if they were just playing, but you can’t play with guns,” he said.
Khoza has been a fierce critic of Jacob Zuma’s fitness as president and has lambasted the party for losing its moral compass and being riddled with corruption. She has been vocal about receiving death threats because of her stance and has claimed the lives of her children have also been threatened. 
In August, Khoza was fired from her position as chairperson of the portfolio committee on public service and administration. A press release at the time from chief whip Jackson Mthembu said there was an irretrievable breakdown of trust as Khoza had persisted in public attacks on the ANC leadership and members of the ANC caucus.
The party redeployed Khoza to the portfolio committee on economic development.
The Independent on Saturday