Ingredients Topping 8 Jerusalem artichokes, peeled 1 shallot, finely diced 1 garlic clove, peeled and finely chopped 1 dash of double cream 1 knob of butter Sea salt Black pepper, freshly ground 1 bunch of spring onions 1 tbsp of pine nuts, toasted 100 g of baby spinach leaves 2 handfuls of parmesan, grated Dough 440g of strong white flour, plus extra for dusting 1 packet of fresh yeast 1 pinch of salt 16 tbsp of water 4 tbsp of olive oil, plus extra for greasing Method Before starting, ensure all the ingredients for the dough base are at room temperature. Make the purée in advance. Fry the shallot and garlic in a little oil and butter until soft. While waiting dice up the Jerusalem artichokes into a fine but rough dice. Add these to the pan and increase the heat a little, then continue cooking until lightly caramelised then transfer to a jug blender. Add a dash of cream, just enough to allow the mix to blitz up and purée. Transfer to the fridge until needed. For the base sift the flour into a large warmed bowl and add a pinch of sea salt. Dissolve the yeast in the warm water then stir in the oil​. Sprinkle with a little of the sieved flour then leave for 15 minutes in a warm place until frothy.
Make a well in the middle of the flour then pour this yeast mix into the well, kneading well until the dough forms, leaving the side of the bowl cleanly. If too sticky add a touch more flour; if too dry add a dash more water. Form a smooth ball and leave in the middle of the bowl. Cover with cling film and leave in a warm place until doubled in size. This may take an hour, even two. Preheat the oven to 200C. Knead the dough vigorously to knock back and distribute the air bubbles. Cut into four then roll out to make a pizza base, as thin as possible and no bigger than half a centimetre thick. Transfer to a lightly oiled tray or baking sheet and allow to rest for 30 minutes. Sprinkle sea salt and olive oil over the base then spread the purée across each one as well. Place in the oven to cook for about 15 minutes until the base is golden and firm. You will need to turn the tray halfway through, bringing the back of the tray to the front of the oven. Scatter the spinach leaves, spring onions and pine nuts over the pizza base and finally scatter the parmesan all over​. Drizzle some olive oil on too then return to the oven for 30 seconds or a minute just to wilt the spinach. Serve at once, with a chilled beer. Recipes and guide courtesy of Great British Chefs.  Visit their site for more delicious spinach recipes.