The 59-year-old woman broke her leg when she was robbed while walking on the beachfront on Saturday afternoon. She apparently had R400 on her when she was accosted by a group of men. Bonginkosi Matabela, an employee at Bike & Bean, a local eatery on Durban’s North Beach, said it was after 4pm when he saw Baker crawling behind the shop. “She said her leg had been broken when she was kicked. She could not walk and it was very cold and windy outside. She managed to get to the front where she sat down and we gave her coffee to keep her warm. “She asked us to contact an ambulance. We called Addington Hospital, but they told us they could not help us,” said Matabela. He was apparently told to call an ambulance instead. According to Matabela, he was about to call 10177 (ambulance emergency number) when he saw a security guard patrolling nearby. Matabela asked the security guard to call for an ambulance. The guard reportedly radioed in the incident to his superintendent so he could call an ambulance. Thinking the matter would be taken care of, Matabela left Baker and went home. “When I came back the next day, I saw her still sitting nearby. She managed to get to the toilet. We called for an ambulance again. It was before 6am. Still no one came. When I spoke to the emergency call-centre operator, he had an attitude. I even thought to myself, would he act this way if it was his grandmother in this situation?” Matabela said. Samantha Parry had taken her son for lifeguard training when she heard Baker asking for help. Parry, a teacher at a Durban primary school, said she asked her what was wrong. “She told me what had happened and how long she had been waiting for an ambulance. I was horrified. She had on a pair of Wellington boots, jeans and an old jersey. I was scared to move her, fearing that I could hurt her even more. She was in pain,” said Parry. Baker told Parry the R400 she had had on her was intended to pay for a shelter for the next few weeks. “I flagged down a police officer and was told by Baker that other police cars had driven by, but not much help was offered. “A female police officer stayed with us and two other police officers also put through calls via their car radios. Still no one came,” Parry said. She said the policewoman had to park her car on a plot between the Bike & Bean and the lifeguard station, so she could be seen on CCTV cameras because the control room did not know where to collect Baker from, despite being given directions. Security A private security company guard and a lifeguard helped keep the injured woman comfortable while they waited for an ambulance. “I offered to take her in my car, but was advised not to. The police officer said I could hurt her leg further, or if anything else happened, I would be liable. By this time, she had told me that she was epileptic and had no family here. She was not married, nor did she have any children,” said Parry. Fed up with having to wait for an ambulance, the policewoman went to Addington Hospital where she managed to track down paramedics. Minutes later, the policewoman arrived at the scene with an ambulance. Baker was stabilised by paramedics before being taken to Addington. Parry said the entire ordeal was horrific and made her question people’s humanity. “Medical professionals take a Hippocratic Oath to serve others. This woman spent the night in the cold, wind and rain without being helped. It is just sad,” said Parry. Sam Mkhwanazi, a Department of Health spokesperson, said they noted with concern this “regrettable incident” and acknowledged it took 18 hours for Baker to get help. “A call was made at 18h05 on September 16 by a caller who was allocated a case number 438 from the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) call centre. An ambulance (KZN 24213A45) was dispatched at 19.35 from the Wentworth EMS base, and was in the vicinity of the Durban Country Club at 20:01. “Unfortunately, there was a miscommunication and the ambulance crew was looking for Mugg & Bean instead of Bike & Bean,” Mkhwanazi said. He said on the day, weather conditions were adverse, “which might have made it difficult for the crew, patient, or the people assisting the patient to see each other”. “The incident is highly regretted and the department would like to apologise to the patient, her relatives, friends and the public.” Baker has been discharged from hospital. Daily News