Johannesburg - The recent positive momentum in South Africa’s new vehicle market continued in August, with vehicle sales growing 6.7 percent year-on-year to total 49 222 units, according to Naamsa. Light commercial vehicles led the way, increasing 10.8 percent over August last year, while passenger car sales grew by 5.4 percent. Medium commercial vehicles bucked the trend however, falling 13.9 percent year-on-year, although the heavy truck and bus segment grew by 6.1 percent. South Africa’s new vehicle exports registered a 12.9 percent decline over the same month last year, to total just 29 927 units. Naamsa attributes the month’s solid domestic sales performance to lower vehicle price inflation along with attractive sales incentives and the recent 25 basis point interest rate reduction. WesBank’s Rudolf Mahoney said that the growth in new car demand was inevitable, particularly with the supply of used vehicles dwindling, while aggressive new car deals also played a role:  “It is evident that manufacturers and dealers have come to realise that right now it’s a value-for-money play, and are offering highly attractive incentives to attract customers into the new car market,” Mahoney said. On the sales charts, Toyota led by a healthy margin with overall sales of 10 751 versus Volkswagen’s 7299 and Ford’s 6482. Toyota also surged ahead in the bakkie sales war, with 3392 Hilux sales versus Ford’s 2566 Ranger sales. Volkswagen continued to dominate the compact car segments with its Polo and Polo Vivo, while Ford ruled the compact SUV sector with its EcoSport and Toyota took top honours in the segments above that with its Rav4 and Fortuner. Below you’ll find the top performers listed in each key segment, although due to the fact that Mercedes-Benz and BMW do not report individual sales figures we have omitted the premium segments where these brands feature prominently. Budget Hatch/Sedan  Compact Hatch/Sedan  Compact-Medium Hatch/Sedan  Compact Crossover/SUV  Compact-Medium Crossover/SUV  Large Crossover/SUV (Sub R1-million)  Bakkies  * BMW and Mercedes-Benz do report monthly sales figures IOL Motoring 