This was the assertion made by ANC councillor in Umzimkhulu, southern KwaZulu-Natal, Jabulile Mzizi, who was shot alongside Sindiso Magaqa in July. The former secretary-general of the ANC youth league died this week apparently from the wounds he sustained during the shooting. Mzizi, a mother of four, who has been a councillor for 11 years, recalled Magaqa ordering them not to move or scream, “because we are going to be shot at.” “Because of the respect we have for him we complied. I could feel bullets penetrating in my lower limb but I didn’t cry. Even him (Magaqa), he didn’t cry at all in spite of the hails of bullets.” When they were shot, Mzizi said they were sitting inside Magaqa’s ML Mercedes-Benz “reviewing” a branch meeting held earlier the day at Ncambele Junior Secondary near Kokstad. “I don’t know how he saw the assailants coming because we were busy talking. And what followed next was a tragedy that will be in my mind forever.” She told the Sunday Tribune that Magaqa was in a jovial mood on the fateful day but warned them to be always safe because things were messy in the region. “When it happened his words came flooding back.” Mzizi said Magaqa was seated in the driver’s seat while she and Nonsikelelo Mafa, also a ward councillor, were on the back seat. “We saw two people coming towards and a hail of bullets followed. I thought he going to die immediately. It was a miracle that he survived. “They then turned their guns to us. I felt urine flooding down my thighs but at no time did I scream. Instead, I just prayed while covering my head. I asked God to protect  me for the sake of my children,” she said. She said the shooting lasted for about five minutes. “They (attackers) thought we were dead,” said Mzizi, sighing heavily. Despite surviving the shooting that nearly claimed her life, Mzizi was unperturbed. “I will never leave the ANC. This is my home and I will die here. I know Comrade Magaqa was killed for standing against corruption.” Zukiswa Hodi, is member of the ANC, was part of the meeting that Magaqa had attended, and was among the first persons to arrive at the bloody scene. “When I arrived at the scene just looking at the bullet-lashed car I thought they were all dead. He (Magaqa) was lying face-down in the driver’s seat across the passenger’s seat.” said Hodi. Hlodi said they struggled to unlock his car. “I kept shouting their names from the outside. At that point my head was spinning. Magaqa responded he had no power to open the car.” added Hodi. Hodi said they had to force open the front passenger door. “He was struggling to breathe but he kept saying he will be fine,” she said. When contacted, Mafa requested “space”, saying, “I’m still trying to come to terms with his death." Mafa said she was perplexed why she was not afforded bodyguards by Umzinyathi Municipality following the attack. EFF leader, Julius Malema, who served with Magaqa in the youth league when he was president, visited the family on Friday. He will attend Magaqa’s funeral next week. Sunday Independent 