Phat Joe opened up about the horrific day his ex- girlfriend Abbey committed suicide. The controversial radio and television personality nearly broke down during an interview on Metro FM’s Fresh Breakfast Show earlier today,  as he recalled the fateful day Abbey died, a few years ago. "It was so weird. We had gone to see Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and at the end of the movie, the girl kills herself, so that was the last date we went on and on that night we broke up. And the reason we broke up was because she wanted to go to England," he revealed. Joe said he wasn’t happy about her leaving and decided to end the relationship that night. However Abbey proceeded with her trip to England. She returned to SA after sometime and attempted to rekindle their relationship. The former Metro FM host said at the time he was involved with another woman, his son's mother. Joe said he later found out the real reason Abbey left for England. She was trying to reconnect with her Irish father, who apparently rejected her. "... she'd gone to England because she was mixed race. She's half Zulu and half Irish, so she had gone to reconnect with her dad and her dad didn't even want to see her. So she's going through all this stuff, I don't know about it. I only find out about it when she gets back and the night I went on a date with my son's mother, she calls me." When they returned home, they found Abbey sitting on his porch waiting for him. The two ladies had some sort of altercation. "The next day she calls me at like, 12. She's crying. She then said 'I'm in the bath, I've slit my wrist and I'm drinking wine." Joe explained that he got angered by what she said and hung up the phone. A few hours later Joe got a phone call his producer, Sindi, who relayed the tragic news. "Three hours later Sindi calls me. She's like 'listen dog, I'm at her house and she's hanging from a ceiling fan, you need to get here, she's still alive." When Joe arrived at his ex-girlfriend's home she had already passed. IOL