The Oktoberfest tradition started in 1811 following the marriage of Bavarian Crown Prince Ludwig to the Saxon-Hildburghausen Princess Therese, which took place in October 1810. Anniversary celebrations have been held annually ever since, and thousands of beer lovers travel to Germany from around the world to participate in the now legendary event. Oktoberfest, the world’s largest folk festival also known by its Bavarian nickname, the Wiesn, is celebrated by Lufthansa German Airlines, where tradition and innovation have combined to create a special brand of festivity. With the 184th Oktoberfest upon us, donning traditional Bavarian apparel is a great way to feel part of the festivities. “Whether you’re paying tribute to the Bavarian culture or enjoying traditional pastimes, Lufthansa Airlines has you covered. Lufthansa will treat its travellers to a great variety of seasonal Oktoberfest offers on board as well as at our Munich hub”, says Dr. Andre Schulz, General Manager Lufthansa Group Southern Africa. Bavarian crew
Since 2006, a long-haul crew has exchanged their Lufthansa uniforms for traditional Bavarian clothing, the “Tracht”, every year during Oktoberfest. The first “Trachten-Crew” took off on September 1, 2006 from Munich to New York, and got passengers in the mood for the Bavarian season for the first time. The flights with traditional Bavarian attire have long since become a tradition that thrills passengers from all over the world, reviving an idea that delighted passengers on board as early as 1957. The Lufthansa Trachten-Crews have flown to 20 destinations over the years, including destinations in China, Japan, India, Dubai and the American continent. This year’s clothing has been designed and tailor-made by the Tracht specialist Angermaier, who has now outfitted the crews in the spirit of the world’s largest fair for the third time in a row. The Wiesn dirndl for the female flight attendants is dark blue with a silver-grey apron. The gentlemen will wear a pair of short Lederhosen with a dark-blue waistcoat in the same fabric as the dirndls. Culinary delights The Lufthansa lounges in Munich are also equipped for the Oktoberfest. Like last year, more than 4,000 kilograms of Leberkäs, over 38,000 pretzels and around 750 kilograms of white sausages will be consumed in the twelve lounges in Terminal 2. The Oktoberfest menu in the festively decorated restaurants of the Lufthansa First Class Lounges will this year begin with a "Bavarian Festive Soup", followed by the farmer's duck in orange-thyme sauce. For dessert, customers can enjoy apricot dumplings in vanilla sauce. There will be a selection of other Bavarian specialties on the long-haul flights as well. Small cosmetic bags with a Bavarian design will also be available in First and Business Class flights on selected routes. 
  
Airbräu microbrewery at Munich Airport At our Munich Airport, travellers will find the Airbräu microbrewery - the world’s one and only brewery located at an airport. The Airbräu's highlight is the large beer garden, which is open approximately from May to October, daily from 08:00 to 01:00. “No matter where one travels, making the effort to learn the local language certainly goes a long way in building relations. When travelling to Oktoberfest, taking place from 16 September to 3 October, attempting to speak ein bisschen Deutsch (a little German) will be very useful, and will be appreciated by the locals“, added Dr. Schulz. 