It has, however, left many asking - particularly in the current climate, in which President Jacob Zuma and some of his cabinet ministers lie shamelessly in public - whether Mbalula will be a man of his word and follow through on the promises he has made. Earlier this week, he was quick off the mark, ahead of cabinet colleagues who are new to their posts, when he presented his plan of action for the next 100 days. Policing is an enormously problematic portfolio. It affects the entire society, with the political leadership and management always juggling various priorities in an attempt to meet the needs of their demanding stakeholders. Mbalula spoke the language many want to hear, about things many want to see done. He acknowledged that crime in this country is unacceptably high and that there was a need to act swiftly and resolutely. While some may not enjoy his overexcited engagement style, laden with theatrics at times, many will agree that it is an uplifting move away from the dull, cagey and often bizarre press conferences by his sweaty predecessor, Nathi Nhleko. Mbalula, who served as deputy police minister between 2009 and 2010, hit the right notes when announcing his plan. He spoke a simple language, peppered with razzmatazz as expected, but it was clear and easy to understand. No euphemisms. No boring government-speak. There is no doubt that stabilising leadership among the different entities, notably the SAPS, Hawks and Ipid, is a priority, but so is implementing the Marikana commission recommendations, uplifting morale of ordinary men and women in blue, getting police management to focus on the main task of reducing crime, and demilitarising and professionalising the police. But it is what Mbalula said when announcing the appointment of Lieutenant-General Yolisa Matakata as the acting head of the Hawks, which was intriguing, and far more significant in the current political climate. “What is expected from all of us is to fight crime and corruption. We want to Hawks to spare no one, irrespective of their status in society. I reminded management that their job was to fight crime, irrespective of who committed it, whether it was in the public or private sector, and regardless of people’s political affiliation.” He repeated that sentiment this week, when he spoke about much-needed “moral and ethical leadership” within the SAPS. In view of this, Mbalula should be praised - cautiously, because of the pending court battle - for getting rid of the inept Lieutenant-General Berning Ntlemeza. He also has to persuade President Zuma to help him remove the acting national commissioner, Lieutenant-General Kgomotso Phahlane. Mbalula says Phahlane will act until the appointment of a new commissioner in June, but his stay in the current role - given the litany of complaints from subordinates and Popcru about his management style - will cause more harm than good. Equally, society will be watching with keen interest what Mbalula does with the many other questionable appointments, such as discredited and controversial Prince Mokotedi (believed to be investigating former minister Nhleko’s priority cases); Major-General Zimo, who was moved from the civilian secretariat to allegedly head up minister Nhleko’s “special projects” at crime intelligence; and Lieutenant-General Mondli Zuma, who was promoted to provincial commissioner of Mpumalanga shortly after acquiring a criminal record for negligent loss of state firearms. There are over 1300 police officers with criminal records ranging from murder, rape and corruption who are still in active service. But these issues are low-hanging fruits. They can be addressed fairly quickly. The real deal, which will give credence to Mbalula’s words, is Lieutenant-General Richard Mdluli. This man has been on suspension with full pay for six years and is on trial for murder, while he has a pending case of plundering the secret fund account of crime intelligence. This is unacceptable and untenable. Mdluli is said to be running the SAPS’s crime intelligence division, in particular, from the East Rand. He is untouchable.  *  Keswa is a businesswoman and writes in her personal capacity. Follow @lebokeswa ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent