Johannesburg - President Jacob Zuma has received unwavering support from the ANC Youth League. A handful of Young Lions in Gauteng, including some newly elected cabinet ministers and current ministers, gathered at the Germiston Stadium in Ekurhuleni on Tuesday evening to speak up on the recent cabinet reshuffle and against those they say have turned their back towards the party. But while rally was scheduled to start at 3pm, proceedings only kicked off three hours later. Zuma who was also expected to attend did not arrive as he was still held up at the ANC's Head Quaters at Luthuli House where the National Working Committee sad and deliberated on the current state of politics and crisis facing the country. Supporters who had been waiting for long were treated to lunch and music. They sang struggle songs and chanted "Zuma My President." A handful of Cosas members were also present and wore shirts with Zuma's face written "Freedom Without Economic Freedom is not Free."    Addressing the crowd around Cosas secretary general Khulekani Skhosana said students supported Zuma and and cared less about the country being downgraded by S & P to junk status. He said those such as the DA who sought to march to Luthuli House on Friday woulud be met with sjamboks, chanting "Protect Luthuli House." His sentiments were shared by ANCYL secretary general Njabulo Nzunza who warned that Luthuli House is a revolutionary building and they would do everything in their power to protect it.  "Jacob Zuma is President today, President tomorrow and President moving forward and we are not going to be deterred. Everyone who stands in our way for radical economic transformation must move out of our way," he said. But it is NEC and NWC member and Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane who came out guns blazing. She blasted former Minister Pravin Gordhan and said he had not qualifications nor was he an economist when Zuma appointed him as Finance Minster.  "He and Gigaba are the same. Gigaba is the child of the ANC," she said, adding he equally deserved to be given a chance. Mokonyane further revealed that those who had been seen clapping and spoke out against Zuma at the funeral of late ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada were now compromised, adding funerals were not a platform to create celebrities out of disgruntled ANC leaders but events that needed to be respected. She highlighted perhaps their unruly behavior was the reason why they were reshuffled out of cabinet. had to be respected. She also defended Zuma saying it was not he, who cancelled Kathrada's official memorial service but Kathrada's family as Kathrada Foundation CEO Neeshan Balton had gone to the Presidency to request this. She also alleged that deputy President Cyril Ramphosa also had a hand in cancelling the memorial. Mokonayne the ANC in Gauteng would gather in numbers to celebrate Zuma's birthday.  Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina also pledged his support for Zuma and lambasted those who spke against him. Ekurhuleni is the only municipality in Gauteng that is still governed by the ANC after it lost Joburg and Tshwane to the DA. Politics and Development Hub