It’s no secret that men turn to escorts to fulfill their sexual needs and desires, but results from a steamy survey has revealed the majority of men who engage with prostitutes are not satisfied by the experience – yet they continue to go back for more because they feel it is their only option.  The survey, conducted by VictoriaMilan - a dating website for married and attached people looking to have an affair – took a look into the sex lives of 6 097 of its active male members from 15 countries to find out if soliciting sex is as erotic and satisfying as it’s made out to be.    The survey data confirms that paid sex is a common exercise: almost half of the male survey sample (47.3 percent) admits they have paid for sex before, and nearly a quarter of those polled (23.3 percent) say they indulge in soliciting sex approximately once a week.  The shocking part: more than a third of men (35 percent) say they absolutely do not enjoy the experience. It’s a necessity, not a pleasure.  The two main reasons gents are looking for an all-expenses-paid thrill is because they can’t find a readily available partner (40.1 percent) and because they can’t live out their fantasies with their long-term partner (36.0 percent).  Men feel a definite need for sexual release, however don’t take a lot of pleasure in paying for the privilege – 80 percent of men will book just one hour with an escort to get it over and done with as quickly as possible. Just five percent of men will pay to spend the night with their paid-for lover – mainly for security reasons.  The majority of men (50.1 percent) say they weren’t satisfied because their experience with the escort lacked passion, enthusiasm and it felt as though they were just another customer. Eight out of ten men (79.8 percent) say they requested photos before meeting the escort, more than one-quarter (26.3 percent) said the escort was much less attractive than what they were expecting.  While prices vary from country to country, the average experience is around €50-200 (about R700 to R3 000). The average budget spent per man interested in paid sex is € 2 000 annually.  The Internet has changed the world of escorts, with the majority of the survey sample (47.1 percent) saying they find their escorts online. The second most popular place to book an appointment is via an agency (23.3 percent), and just 5.1 percent of men say they’ll pick up a prostitute from the street.  Most of the time, the surveyed males say they will play it safe and go to the escort’s place (38.4 percent) so they are less likely to be seen, however nearly one-quarter (24.1 percent) don’t mind bringing her home.  Founder and CEO of Victoria Milan, Sigurd Vedal, said there’s nothing wrong in engaging an escort for pleasure and release, however it’s clear men aren’t satisfied by the paid-for experience.  “Men engaging escorts is a love/hate relationship – men love sex and need to have it regularly and escorts meet that demand, however the majority aren’t satisfied with the experience, and are often disappointed when the escort doesn’t live up to expectations in the bedroom or doesn’t look like her advertised picture.  Statistics from this survey were collected from 15 countries: Poland, Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Finland, Spain, Norway, France, Czech Republic, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Germany, South Africa and the United States. 