Like some French-country dishes, a clafoutis (klah-foo-TEE) sounds like something fancy and complicated, but it's actually homey and easy to make. The fruit-laden dessert pancake is elegant in its simplicity – glorious, golden brown and sugar dusted.And nearly all it entails is making a basic pancake batter, pouring it into a pie dish, adding the fruit and baking it.The accompanying recipe is a more healthful yet equally sumptuous take on the classic, using tender whole-grain pastry flour instead of all-purpose flour, and honey instead of refined sugar. It also calls for low-fat milk to more comfortably allow for some butter in the batter, but if you prefer whole milk to low-fat, that would be fine as well.The taste of the honey shines through beautifully here, and its flavour is lovely with the fresh raspberries. The French dish was born to make delicious use of whatever fruit is in peak season, so feel free to use what you find to be especially prime at the market or farm stand this spring or at any time of year. Honey Whole-Wheat Clafoutis With Raspberries 6 servings This healthier take on the classic French-country dessert pancake uses whole-grain pastry flour instead of white and honey instead of refined sugar. Raspberries are called for here, but feel free to make delicious use of whatever fruit is in peak season. From nutritionist and cookbook author Ellie Krieger. Ingredients 2 large eggs, beaten 1/2 cup low-fat (1 percent) milk 1/4 cup honey 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled 1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest (from 1 lemon) 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup whole-wheat pastry flour 2 cups fresh raspberries 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar, for serving Method Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Grease a 9-inch (about 22cm) pie plate or ceramic dish with cooking oil spray. Whisk together the eggs, milk, honey, butter, lemon zest and salt in a mixing bowl until well incorporated, then gradually whisk in the flour, to form a smooth batter. Pour into the pie plate, then add the raspberries; top sides down will help them to stay upright as you work. Bake (middle rack) for 40 to 50 minutes, until the clafoutis is golden brown and centre is set. Dust the top with confectioners' sugar and serve right away. * Krieger is a registered dietitian, nutritionist and author who hosts public television's "Ellie's Real Good Food." She blogs and offers a weekly newsletter at www.elliekrieger.com. Washington Post