 LONDON – Anthony Joshua will have the option of triggering an immediate rematch with Wladimir Klitschko if he is beaten in their Wembley showdown on Saturday - but the Ukrainian legend does not have the same clause. It has been suggested that each fighter would be able to invoke a rematch following the heavyweight blockbuster this weekend. But Sportsmail understands only Joshua has the clause in his deal, meaning the IBF world champion would have a rapid opportunity to avenge himself in the event of a first career defeat. Klitschko, the former unified champion, would not be drawn on the subject in a media conference call last week, saying to a direct question about the existence of a clause: ‘I don’t discuss contractual points.’ But the likelihood is that he would get a rematch with Joshua (below) even if he is beaten, as long as the first fight is not a major mismatch in the Brit’s favour. If the 41-year-old loses a close contest then it is highly probable that the broadcasting networks would push for a sequel to a promotion which has sold 90,000 tickets at Wembley and is expected to draw more than one million pay-per-view buys. For their part, the fighters are pocketing upwards of £10million each for the biggest heavyweight fight in a decade. The fighters were yesterday applying the finishing touches to their training, with Klitschko due to arrive in London today, ahead of a public workout at Wembley Arena in the evening. Klitschko is returning to the ring after a 17-month absence following the defeat against Tyson Fury in 2015 that ended his decade-long reign at the top of the sport. Joshua admitted he has drawn few lessons from Fury’s win, saying: ‘I have watched it because it was the most recent one so it is very relevant, but Fury is completely different to me. I can’t box the way Fury boxed and can’t expect it to be as simple as that for me. I just look at little parts of it, not the whole thing. ‘I’m more worried about myself. It’s the most recent one but I don’t study it — everyone is different when you fight them. I’m going to worry about myself, how I am feeling. Am I confident? As long as I tick my boxes I am in a good place.’ Daily Mail  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 