Christopher September, 31, and three others are accused of shooting and killing little Zahnia Woodward on December 30 last year. But Siddika Adams, 25, says Christopher, from Hout Bay, has nothing to do with Zahnia's death and she is sick of his name being dragged through the mud. “He was not there. He did not kill Zahnia and shoot at her father, but nobody will listen and my pleas go unheard at the police station,” she told the Daily Voice on Sunday. Zahnia was sitting on her dad, Bradley Robyn’s, lap when five men in a white VW Golf drove up to them and shot at them. Bradley, 24, and one of his friends were injured in the attack. The group was sitting outside, waiting for Zahnia's mom, Cindy Woodward, 20, to come home from work that Friday afternoon. Siddika admits that Christopher drove the Golf earlier that day. But she claims the car belonged to a friend and that Christopher returned it to that friend. She says he decided to speak to police after he started receiving threats from the community. “Camera footage of Christopher leaving the area before the shooting will prove his innocence, but nobody is bothering to check." “Christopher and I looked after a friend’s house in Ocean View and were in Belhar at his aunt’s house for the festive season. We dropped his friend and used the friend's white Golf to go home to Hout Bay." “His friend then called him to bring the car back and he drove the purple Golf back home." “He was nowhere near the white Golf or in Ocean View when the shooting took place, but because people threatened him and his family, he went to the police, who instead of helping, arrested him." “I tried to speak to Cindy Woodward and explain, but she will not have anything to do with me." “This is wrong. Our daughter is five-years-old and I cannot give her a valid reason why her father cannot be home," says an angry Siddika. Cindy says she told Siddika to speak to the police and bring proof. “If she feels he is innocent and has the proof, she must go to the police. We are dealing with enough as it is and do not need this kind of drama,” Cindy expresses. September, Larry Johnson, Taswell Kriel and Morné May are all expected to appear in court again on May 2. Daily Voice