Here's a list of events that are happening in Joburg from 28 April until 6 May 2017. A rare sighting of AKA It's been a little over a year since AKA headlined Soweto’s most popular party spot, Zone 6 Venue with his inaugural Supa Mega Show. That was one of, if not the most important shows of his career. This time around, his Supa Mega Show format is in full swing and the celebration will be for Authentic Sunday’s seventh birthday. Since the inaugural Supa Mega Show last year, AKA has made a decision to perform less and be more deliberate about the gigs he accepts. So this is one of the rare chances to see him live in concert outside of festival settings. AKA will be joined by by a star-studded hip hop line-up that includes Emtee, JR, Gemini Major and Jub Jub. Behind the decks will be DJ’s Capital, Sliqe, Mr. X, Sean Kross and Vino, DJ Fanatic, Ayanda MVP, Zero, Kaybsta, Bhibo and Al Da 3rd. Tickets are available at Computicket. R100 for general and R200 for VIP. The Tenors – Live In Concert Direct from Europe, and exclusively at Joburg Theatre, The Tenors – LIVE IN CONCERT will be entertaining audiences at Joburg Theatre, cnr Simmonds Street and Stiemens Road, Braamfontein from May 3 for a three-week season only. The talented group of Europe’s finest singers performs some of the greatest music of the 20th Century, Opera, Pop, Musicals, and Swing. Show start at 8pm. Tickets R180-R350. To book call: 011 877 6800. Afro Jazz and Soul Picnic The third annual afro jazz and soul picnic celebrates live art performances by local and international artists at the Mehlareng Stadium in Tembisa on Saturday. It`s an ideal day out for friends who seek a matured ambience of jazz and soul music while enjoying a picnic vibe experience Tickets: R150-R500. Starts at 12pm. The Lumineers are back The Lumineers continue their tour in South Africa in support of their latest smash hit album, Cleopatra with a performance on Friday 28 April 2017 at the Ticketpro Dome in Johannesburg. The Lumineers’ Cleopatra has been an international hit album – not only achieving No.1 status in the UK, U.S & Canada Official Charts, but also charting at the top of the Billboard Top 200. The band are excited to get back out on the road and, as Wesley puts it “connect with the new record and have people connect with it”. Ticket Price: R405 – R745 from Big Concerts and Computicket. Transformers invade Emperors Palace Optimus Prime, Megatron, Bumblebee and the Rescue Bots are invading the African continent for the first time in Transformers Animatronics at the Red Roman Shed at Emperors Palace until end of May. Transformers Animatronics is a unique event based on the popular Hasbro saga that has broken box office records for both movies and television. Visitors can view breathtaking sculptures, made from wrecked cars, on display against the scenery of the legendary planet, Cybertron, that will be brought to life through eye-popping performance technology.  Tickets: R95-R135 Book through Webtickets. * If you have an event coming up, email whatson@inl.co.za and it may be featured.         