So the Easter school holidays are upon us with most schools already broken-up and the kids at home, in holiday mode. It is that time of the year when chocolate eggs and bunny rabbits dominate our shopping baskets but rather than paying to much attention to shopping malls and grocery lists why not celebrate at one of these great events or by taking advantage of last warm holidays before winter. Whether you’re on the lookout for egg hunts for the kids, great entertainment to keep family occupied while on holiday or simply searching for places offering Sunday picnic spots for the whole family, here is our overview of great things to do around South Africa over the Easter: Cape Town The LEGO Play Experience Little ones will have the chance to become a LEGO Master Builder at the V&A Waterfront these holidays, with the LEGO Play Experience in the Centre Court of the Victoria Wharf Shopping Centre With exciting prizes up for grabs to the most creative, determined and innovative LEGO Builders, children can let their imaginations run wild with one of the largest LEGO collections they’ve likely ever seen! Date: Tuesday 11 – Sunday 16 April Venue: V&A Waterfront Cost: Free Tel: 021 408 7600 Email: info@waterfront.co.za READ:Avoid online travel scams ahead of Easter Bugz Playpark 5th Easter Egg Hunt Great excitement and holiday fun! The children will be divided into three age groups and tasked with finding the delicious sweet and colourful delights which have been secretly hidden around the playpark. Fun activities will include a visit by the Easter Bunny, dazzling tricks by a magician and so much more! Date: Mon 17 April Venue: Bugz Playpark Time: 11:00 – 13:00 Cost: R35 – R120 Tel: 021 988 8836 Email: party@bugz.co.za The Tale of Peter Rabbit Mrs Rabbit lived in her cosy burrow underneath the roots of a very big fir-tree. She had four little children, Flopsy, Mopsy and Cotton-Tail who were good little bunnies and Peter, who was sometimes a bit naughty! Their neighbour Mr McGregor grew carrots, radishes and lettuce in his garden. The rabbit family would love to have gone into Mr McGregor's garden to eat the yummy vegetables but Mrs Rabbit had forbidden her family to go into the garden as their father had had an "accident" there. One day naughty Peter decided to explore, but instead of going to school, he went to Mr McGregor's garden? Join the flopsy bunnies at Artscape and help Peter Rabbit escape from Mr McGregor's clutches. Date: Saturday 1 – Thursday 13 April Venue: Artscape Tel: 021 410 9838 Email: artscape@artscape.co.za Easter Market Cape Town Discover the wealth of creative talent in Cape Town. Textile artists, ceramics, silversmiths, interior decor, gifts, tasty treats and more. Date: Thu 6 – Sun 9 April Venue: Cavendish Square Time: Thursday – Saturday: 09:00 – 19:00 Sunday: 10:00 – 17:00 Tel: 072 223 8046 Email: madeinthecape@gmail.com READ:Cape Town hotel goes green Delicious Easter Buffet at Radisson Blu Waterfront Feast on a special Sunday Lunch Buffet at Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront this Easter. Prepared by the talented Chef Norman Heath of Tobago’s Restaurant. Celebrate the long Easter weekend on the edge of the Atlantic Ocean with magnificent views of the private mariner and blue sea as far as the eye can see. Perfect for family gatherings, a date or a get-together with friends, choose a table on the terrace next to the infinity pool to enjoy the last rays of Cape Town summer. Date: Sunday 16th of April Venue: Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront Cost: R425 pp and R213 children Time:12:30 – 15:30 Tel: 0216851101 Email: rachel@spill.co.za Sundowners at !Khwa ttu Join us for spectacular views, a stunning sunset, good food & wine. !Khwa ttu, Transport available from Yzerfontein & Darling. Pick up: Yzerfontein Shell / Darling Engen. Date: Friday 7 April – 5 May Venue: Yzerfontein, R27 West Coast Road. Time: 17:30 Cost: R 65pp Includes scenic drive & snack platter Tel: 022 492 2998 Email: www.khwattu.org