Katherine Jackson is reportedly being kept away from her grandchildren. The 86-year-old showbiz matriarch – who is the mother of the late Michael Jackson – gained a restraining order against her nephew Trent Jackson in February after she claimed he'd been stealing cash behind her back and abusing her. However, her nephew and his lawyer believe her son Jermaine is behind the case and after Katherine recently returned to Los Angeles, from London where she had been visiting her daughter Janet, she did not return to her own home but to one of her children's residences. TMZ reports that Trent and his team believe that Katherine's children are worried that Michael’s children Paris and Prince will encourage her to drop the lawsuit and so they are keeping her away from them until she testifies against Trent. Trent – who has been caring for Katherine since 2009 – previously cited the matriarch's disappearance in 2012 in court documents and claimed Jermaine and some of his siblings held her hostage and even took her phone away in a bid to distance her from him. Trent and his lawyer are now convinced that a similar situation could be unfolding behind closed doors as they feel Jermaine and his siblings are keen to get their hands on the Michael Jackson Estate and are trying to strip Katherine of her free will. Trent has now asked the judge to drop the case or make Katherine appear in court as he's convinced she'll back him, like she did in 2012, if she stands before the jury. At present, the Estate pays Katherine – the legal guardian of Michael's children since his death – a monthly stipend and when she dies, the balance of his fortune will go to his kids and various charities. In his will, the 'Thriller' hitmaker didn't include his father Joe Jackson or his siblings. In February, Katherine was granted a temporary restraining order against Trent after alleging he had abused her and that he had neglected her health. She also said in her filing to the court: "I believe he has put cameras and bugs in my home, so the only place I can try and have a private conversation is in my bathroom... "I used to be very social with my friends, like playing Scrabble, walking around in the park, sharing meals, but Trent has given them various reasons why I am not available." Bang Showbiz