A crowd of buyers, bloggers, designers and photographers assembled for five days of runway shows featuring  ladies wear and men's wear. The event also featured a trade show and pop-up stores wing where curated displays were on show for guests to browse and purchase the latest collections. Guests participated in informative talks with selected designers who shared their expertise with aspiring fashion designers. There were more highlights than lows which is refreshing to witness as younger designers put out well designed garments that can easily compete on international runways. The visiting designers from Norway and China brought in much-needed inspiration. Here are some highlights: * Woolworths launched its 2017 StyleBySA seasonal campaign, featuring a capsule collection of eight local designers who are making waves in the industry. The capsule collection features designs by Rich Mnisi, Thebe Magugu, AKJP, Pichulik, Maria McCloy, Sol Sol, Selfi and Young&Lazy. From modern streetwear to footwear and accessories inspired by our continent, the collaboration received raving reviews. In a first for SAFW, the collection was available online straight from the runway. * Four South African designers competed for a opportunity of a lifetime. The prize of a travel seminar to Berlin Fashion Week courtesy of Lufthansa German Airlines. Designer Sheila-Madge won with her presentation of art decor designs decorated with florals and embellishments. Also the highlight of the night included the Durban University of Technology (DUT) X showcase where students were given the platform to showcase their spring and summer collections. * Chu Yan, one of China’s top 10 designers, of Chinese clothing brand CHUYAN presented a beautifully crafted collecting titled “A date with a thousand years” in collaboration with bespoke jewellery brand “Impilo”. The meticulously made and presented collection in shades of burnt orange and green consisted of ready-to-wear garments and tailor-made costume that left me breathless. * For more runway shows and designer info visit: www.safashionweek.co.za Instagram: @safashionweek.