Digit has tried to take the work out of saving by tracking
users' income and spending patterns, and setting aside "extra" cash
that isn't needed to cover regular expenses. Its users have saved $500 million
since the app launched in February, according to the company. But Digit could lose a chunk of its user base after it
announced last week that it will start charging $2 99 a month for the service,
after a 100 day grace period. The news sparked an immediate response from angry users who
said they would be closing their accounts. "Loved digit, hate the ideas of
fees," one person commented on the company's Facebook page. Read also: Seven money musts for 2017 "Makes no sense to pay to save," wrote another. Digit's
chief executive Ethan Bloch called the fee a "transparent" way for
Digit to make money that would give the company more room to develop other
services. Bloch told The Post he didn't want to resort to selling customers'
data or partnering with companies that may want to sell financial products to
Digit's customers. "On Digit's side, we can be beholden to nobody but our
customer," Bloch says. As part of the change, Digit is also increasing the annual
"bonus" it pays customers to 1 percent of the account balance, up
from 0.2 percent. That means that customers would need to have at least $3 600
in their accounts to break even on the $36 annual fee. Rival savings apps that aren't (yet) charging fees seized on
Digit's announcement to try to win over users. For example, the savings app
Qapital, which lets users create rules for when savings should be automatically
deducted, says it saw a record number of app downloads the day Digit announced
the fee. The app is offering $10 bonuses to new customers who open
and fund accounts in April. Chime, a mobile banking app that offers free
automatic saving for every time customers use their debit cards or every time
they are paid, says account openings have increased by 20 percent since last
week. But Digit is betting that some people who feel they may
never get around to saving otherwise will be willing to pay a few bucks a month
to have the app save for them. Some studies show that consumers often drag their feet when
it comes to making major financial decisions, such as opening a savings
account, even when there is a financial incentive for doing so. Human nature tends to hold back many consumers from making
savvier financial choices, says David Blanchett, head of retirement research
for Morningstar, a fund research firm. "Whatever is the easiest path,
people tend to go with it," he says. Digit is not rolling out any new services now, but down the
line, Bloch says he would like to go beyond saving to help people figure out
how to pay off their debt more quickly. In the meantime, users will have a decision to make.
"They can decide 'is this worth it?' And if not, they don't have to use
it," Bloch said. "If they think it is worth it, then they know
exactly how they're paying for it." WASHINGTON POST