DURBAN – When the Sharks run out in front of a partisan Argentinian crowd on Saturday at 9.40pm SA time to face the Jaguares, they will be preparing for Test-match conditions. However, the Sharks, and they’re not as the first team to do so, have taken a big risk by selecting this game to do some rotating. The last team to head to Argentina without their front-line XV selected were the Cheetahs, and they saw their gamble backfire as they fell 41-14. The Lions did something similar earlier this season too, taking a seemingly B side to face the Jaguares, and returning with a 36-24 beating. Those with a little longer-term memory will also remember last season, in the Lions’ last pool-stage game of the year, they also took a B side to Argentina and lost. One would hope South African sides would learn from these mistakes, especially after that loss cost the Lions a home final, and who knows, a real shot at the trophy. It is now the Sharks’ turn to take a gamble, and much like the Lions of last year, there is much at stake. In the South African group, there are three spots up for grabs when it comes to qualifying. Currently the Sharks take the third spot with their haul of 24 points, but only four points, or a win, behind them are the Jaguares, just waiting to pounce. Should the Jaguares win this game of gambled fortunes, they could take the qualifying spot from the Sharks, leaving the Durban outfit with only six matches to try and claw it back. Those games also include a run of three big South African derbies against the Bulls, Stormers and Lions. Coach Robert du Preez has said from the outset of the competition that he is building a winning squad, not a winning team. He trusts all of his players implicitly, and that is clear. This change of personnel has outright been called a rotation, and a chance to give fringe players a chance to shine, but one has to wonder about the timing. The Sharks are coming off one of their worst performances, as conceded by the coach himself, against the Rebels, and it would not be unreasonable for an axe to be heaved at those who let him down.  While stating that there would be no punishment of that sort, it seems interesting to see some of the players left behind. There is a new captain in Philip van der Walt, who forms a great-looking loose trio with the Du Preez twins, Jean-Luc and Daniel. The front row has had a complete overhaul as the deputies in Thomas du Toit, Chiliboy Ralepelle and Lourens Adriaanse are promoted, along with Ruan Botha for Etienne Oosthuizen at lock. In the backs, Cobus Reinach makes way for Michael Claassens to partner Curwin Bosch, while Jeremy Ward takes the vacant No 12 jersey from the suspended André Esterhuizen. Odwa Ndungane fills the gap on the wing, while Rhyno Smith keeps his spot after an impressive effort against the Rebels. @DarrynPollock216