Margate, KwaZulu-Natal - The South Coast has organised its own two-wheeler fest to take the place of the Harley Davidson-organised Africa Bike Week which has moved to East London this year. Margate beach is set to host the four-day motorcycling, extreme sports and musical extravaganza when the South Coast Bike Fest descends on the coastal town from 27-30 April. Open to all motorcycle enthusiasts, visitors can expect a feast of nonstop action, with top local acts Fokofpolisiekar, Koos Kombuis, Jack Parow, Die Heuwels Fantasties and Gangs of Ballet (to name just a few) ready to rock the Carling Main Beach Stage; and at the Experiential Energy Zone near the fishing pier some of the country’s most daring freestyle motocross, trials, BMX and skateboard riders will perform a Gravity Clash Action Sports show twice daily. Most bike brands will be on hand to display their latest models on special dealership decks, while vintage machines will be on show at a dedicated Classic Bike Show Club deck. Hungry show visitors will be catered to with a wide variety of restaurants, bars and speciality food trucks along the beachfront, and a Mardi Gras Festival Market will be set up for purveyors of quality crafts. A little further up the road in Port Shepstone, Dezzi Raceway will host a Festival of Speed where racing fans can watch a round of the regional motorcycles championships, or take to the track themselves for a public Time Attack race. Entry to compete is priced at R735 which includes track fees and a one-day race licence. The weekend will finish off with a 34km mass parade on Sunday, starting at Shelly Beach Centre, moving up Marine Drive toward Port Shepstone, and then heading back to a finish at Margate’s fishing pier. Entrance to the South Coast Bike Fest is free, but visitors are encouraged to pre-register at www.quicket.co.za. Tickets for the Main Beach Stage concerts are priced at R130 per day or R200 for the cocktail bar day pass. For a VIP four-day pass the cost is R360. Children under 12 enter free. For more information, visit www.southcoastbikefest.co.za or email info@southcoastbikefest.co.za. Star Motoring