Here's a list of events that are happening in Durban and surrounds from 28 April until May 6 2017. Can Temba's love story at Playhouse Loft Crepuscule, the adaptation by Khayelihle Dom Gumede of Can Temba’s real-life romance is on at the The Playhouse Company's The Loft Theatre from May 3-5. The play, a fictional interpretation of Themba’s real-life love affair with a white woman, Jean Hart, during the 1950s, has been nominated for six Naledi Theatre awards. Booking through Computicket. Catch SA Roy and Forest Jam Band with special guest Madala Kunene A great way to spend your Sunday afternoon is by heading over to The Rainbow Restaurant where SA Roy and Forest Jam Band, with special guest Madala Kunene will perform. SA Roy and the Forest Jam Band were born out of a 2015 gathering with local and international musicians in Madagascar. For their 2017 tour, SA Roy are collaborating with South African/Swiss Forest Jam Band and for some concerts with Madala Kunene. SA Roy’s musical style includes a capella, mandolin, acoustic guitar, traditional percussion playing and Tandroy dance. Show starts at 1pm until 7pm. Tickets: R80 Cyril Neville shares the stage with Ernie Smith Grammy Award-winning legend Cyril Neville, hailed as “the last of the great Southern blues singers”, shares the stage with Durban’s Sama award-winner, Ernie Smith, at the Playhouse Opera on May 4. Tickets R350 to R650. Booking through Computicket or via Playhouse box office on 031 369 9540 / 369 9596. Dog Walk and Family Fun Day Phoenix Animal Care and Treatment are hosting a 3km dog walk and family fun day at La Lucia Growthpoint Park on May 6. There will be food stalls, a flea market, activities and rides plus dog adoption and discounted micro-chipping. Registration from 8am, walk 10am. Humans R30, dogs R10. iHeart Market The monthly iHeart Market celebrates art, craft, design and artisan food at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday May 6 from 9am to 2pm. * If you have an event coming up, email whatson@inl.co.za and it may be featured.