JOHANNESBURG – Aiden Markram and Khaya Zondo have been named as the respective captains of the South Africa ‘A’ four-day and 50-over squads for the upcoming tour of England announced on Wednesday. The 22-year-old Titans batsman Markram earns his debut SA ‘A’ call-up after an impressive breakthrough opening season. He scored 565 runs at an average of 51.36 – including two hundreds – in the Sunfoil Series, a season which culminated in a record-breaking man-of-the match performance of 161 off 123 balls in the Momentum One-Day Cup final. Zondo was equally impressive on his debut season as fulltime captain of the Dolphins, scoring 740 runs at an average of 67.27 in the Sunfoil Series, including two hundreds and five half-centuries. “These are the players we are looking at as future leaders, and we are excited to see them develop in this role,” CSA selection convener Linda Zondi said. “Although Aiden hasn’t captained at franchise level, he has been a player we have eyed since his role as captain of the world-cup winning SA Under-19 side. “Khaya captained the Dolphins for the first time this season and along with being one of the leading run-scorers, has shown leadership qualities that we would like to develop.”   Proteas fast bowler Dale Steyn makes a return to action after a lengthy shoulder injury, and has been selected for the four-day squad as he continues to make encouraging progress to full match fitness. Zondi says the four-day series will be an opportunity to scout out some of the fringe players ahead of the four-Test series against England starting in July. “The four-day series will give us an opportunity to see how some of the players who are on the fringes of the Test squad perform in England ahead of the four-Test series,” Zondi said. “We still have time to finalise the Test team, so that series can give us some pointers before we finalise the Test squad.” SA ‘A’ 50-over squad Reeza Hendricks, Jon Jon Smuts, Aiden Markram, Temba Bavuma, Theunis de Bruyn, Khaya Zondo (captain), Heino Kuhn, Dwaine Pretorius, Mangaliso Mosehle, Sisanda Magala, Tabraiz Shamsi, Lungi Ngidi, Duanne Olivier, Junior Dala, Dane Paterson. SA ‘A’ four-day squad Heino Kuhn, Aiden Markram (captain), Theunis de Bruyn, Temba Bavuma, Khaya Zondo, Jason Smith, Heinrich Klaasen, Dwaine Pretorius, Rudi Second, Dane Piedt, Lungi Ngidi, Dane Paterson, Duanne Olivier, Junior Dala, Beuran Hendricks, Dale Steyn.