Dan has won several awards including the 2016 La Jolla Fashion Film Awards, Best Make Up Category for the film Fairy fight and the 2015 Cinemoi Hollywood International Fashion Film Awards, Best Art Director for the film Queen Brushhands including nominations for Best Make Up Artist and Best Costume Design. She will be hosting a master class at the Mercedes-Benz Bokeh SA International Fashion Film Festival today at the Mercedes-Benz dealership in Century City.  What made you decide to become an artist? I didn’t choose to be an artist, since I can remember I felt that art was a part of me. I was always drawing from a really young age and I was also performing on stage as a dancer so it was within me all the time and I love that. I feel so lucky to be an artist, but you definitely can’t choose that - you either are an artist or you are not. I used to practise make-up on my friends since I was about 10-11, but it was only when I was 21 that I decided to be a make-up artist and body painter.  How did you choose the human body as a canvas? I think it’s more challenging and fun to paint the human body. I love the curves of the body and I think you can create real magic. The fact that the art on the body could take long hours (between 3-8 hours or more) to do and it lasts only a few hours, to then only be washed off in the shower and all you have left is a photo and a memory, is what makes it more interesting and magical.  How did you perfect your technique? I learn all my technique by doing (practice makes perfect) and from experience, nobody ever taught me my skills in make-up. If you want to be good at what you do, you have to practise a lot. It just makes it easier in real time and the technique just keeps getting better and better. I’m always developing my techniques and style, so after 22 years as a make-up artist I am still learning. What are the tools of your trade? Many times I create avant-garde make-up so it’s not the usual beauty. I love to create extreme beauty and to use many different colours and techniques, combined with great make-up products and make-up brushes, tools that I have invented and designed myself. I have my make-up brushes line that I produced in Germany, called “m.i.a by einat dan”. A line of exclusive, high-end make-up brushes designed in 2012. Each brush is hand-crafted and manufactured in Germany, allowing for a superior quality and flawless application.  How do you deal with critics? I think we only learn from critics and we have to accept the good and the bad ones. I think I’m dealing well with that, maybe because I am receiving much more positives critics than negative, but I think both are great. I always say, “when people talk about you, if it’s good or bad, it’s great - it means you exist”.  What is the most unusual request for a piece of body art you have ever had? I’m not working with individual people, only for big brands or fashion editorials so I choose how my make-up will look. I discuss with the clients, but most of my make-up and body painting is designed - no weird or special area of the body but for creativity.  Do you have any advice for aspiring artists? My advice for every aspiring artist is to believe in yourself and make your dreams come true. To be successful, for me, it’s hard work and you have to practise a lot to be really good at what you do, so just take all your energy and focus on your dreams and create.  What can we expect from your masterclass today My masterclass will be about new trends in fashion and creative make-up. I will demonstrate how to create a fashion look for an editorial. It will be creative and interesting. I will start the demo with a presentation of my work on a big screen and then I will create live creative fashion make-up on my model.  See more of Einat Dan work at www.einatdan.com