Luther Singh and Phakamani Mahlambi have been included in an Amajita training squad ahead of the Fifa Under-20 World Cup. The South African Under-20 team (Amajita) will hold their first training camp from April 19 to May 3, and will involve a visit to Amsterdam April 24. After the first phase, Amajita will move base to Asia for the final preparations for the Fifa Under-20 World Cup which will run from May 20 to June 11 in South Korea. For the first phase of the camp, head coach Thabo Senong has named a squad of 28 players that will report for camp on April 19. The team will then travel to Europe on April 24 until May 3. Amajita are drawn in Group D together with European giants Italy, South America’s Uruguay and Japan. But whether the likes of Wits’ Mahlambi and Ajax Cape Town’s Grant Margeman will be released by their PSL clubs for these camps is another matter as it will take place in the closing stages of the Premiership season. “This will be our first phase of preparation and we are looking at a pool of players who have represented Amajita from the qualifiers of the AFCON. We are looking at those who participated in the AFCON and those that we have called up before, but were not released by their clubs. “We will be hosted by the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB) in Amsterdam, Netherlands and have scheduled a few practice matches against the likes of Feyenoord, Ajax Amsterdam and PEC Zwolle respectively,” said Senong. “Our main focus in this camp is to get the players to work as a team. There will be more character building, confidence boosting and mental and physical strengthening rather than tactical approaches,” added Senong. Amajita Training Squad Goalkeepers: Sanele Tshabalala (Bidvest Wits), Darren Johnson (Ajax Cape Town), Mondli Mpoto (SuperSport United), Khulekani Kubheka (Mamelodi Sundowns). Defenders: Malebogo Modise (Mamelodi Sundowns), Thendo Mukumela (Mamelodi Sundowns), Notha Ngcobo (Mamelodi Sundowns), Tercious Malepe (Orlando Pirates), Shane Saralina (Ajax Cape Town), Sandile Mthetwa (Orlando Pirates), Aghmat Ceres (Ajax Cape Town), Reeve Frosler (Bidvest Wits), Siyabonga Ngezana (Kaizer Chiefs). Midfielders: Sipho Mbule (SuperSport United), Wiseman Meyiwa (Kaizer Chiefs), Nkosingiphile Ngcobo (Kaizer Chiefs), Sibongakonke Mbatha (Bidvest Wits), Kobamelo Kodisang (Platinum Stars), Grant Margeman (Ajax Cape Town), Teboho Mokoena (SuperSport United), Kabelo Seriba (FC Metta, Latvia), Masilakhe Pholongo (Ajax Cape Town), Luther Singh (Sporting Braga, Portugal). Strikers: Fagrie Lakay (SuperSport United), Itumeleng Shopang (Kaizer Chiefs), Phakamani Mahlambi (Bidvest Wits), Liam Jordan (Sporting Lisbon, Portugal), Thabo Cele (Benfica, Portugal).