Shanghai Auto Show – You’d have to look hard to find a gap in the BMW M4 line-up, but BMW reckons there is a big empty void that needs filling between the already-hardcore Competition Package and the track-focused GTS. Enter the new limited-edition M4 CS, revealed in Shanghai this week. Producing 338kW at 6250rpm, the CS’s version of the M Division’s 3-litre twin-turbo six is closer in power terms to the 331kW Competition Package than it is to the 368kW GTS, but the CS does at least match the latter’s heady 600Nm torque figure, produced between 4000 and 5380rpm. It also slots neatly between its two siblings in performance terms, taking 3.9 seconds to get to 100km/h, versus 3.8 (GTS) and 4.0 (CP). But whereas the GTS’s speed nanny allows 305km/h, the CS has been electronically limited to 280km/h. As you’d expect, power goes to the rear wheels through a seven-speed M DCT dual-clutch transmission. The CS rolls on semi-slick Michelin Pilot Sport Cup 2 tyres: 265/35 R19s upfront and 285/30 R20s at the back. The car has a similar chassis to the Competition Package M4 and is fitted as standard with Adaptive M suspension and Active M Differential. Drivers can adjust the suspension (as well as the steering) through Sport+, Sport and Comfort modes. While it still has a form of DSC stability control to save your skin, there is an M Dynamic Mode that apparently allows “controlled drifts”. But the ultimate proof should be in the Nürburgring lap time pudding, and to that end BMW says it’s hauled a CS around the Nordschleife in just 7m38s, and that’s a mere ten seconds slower than the uncompromised, track-focused GTS. The CS comes with a styling and aerodynamic package that includes a model-specific carbon fibre front splitter as well as a front apron with large three-section air intakes and a GTS-derived rear diffuser. Its weight-saving entourage includes a roof and bonnet made from carbon fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP). All those racy vibes continue inside with lightweight M sports seats upholstered in leather and Alcantara, and there’s no roughing it on the luxury front, with the CS packing in a high-end ‘BMW HiFi Professional’ sound system as well as satnav and automatic climate control. The M4 CS is set to go on sale in South Africa during the third quarter of this year and local pricing will be announced closer to the time. European customers will pay 116 900 euro (R1.67 million) for having the second fastest M4 on the block. Oh, and BMW promises that this won't be the last CS-badged M car to hit the streets... IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  