Washington - New US first lady Melania Trump stepped
out in a Ralph Lauren baby-blue jacket and matching dress on
Friday, choosing one of America's most iconic designers for
Inauguration Day ceremonies. Democrat Hillary Clinton, who lost to Republican Donald
Trump in the November elections, also chose Ralph Lauren, and
her cream coat and white pantsuit was echoed by the choices of
the Trump daughters. Ivanka Trump, who has her own fashion line, donned a white
pantsuit with an asymmetrical cut that was designed by Oscar de
la Renta. Tiffany Trump wore a white doubled breasted coast over
a white dress. But the outfit getting most attention on Friday was the red
hat with white and blue military style coat worn by Trump's
former campaign spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway. The short, double-breasted Gucci coat had a
revolutionary-era look that took social media by storm, evoking
comparisons ranging from Paddington Bear to Napoleon and a
nutcracker. Conway's outfit sparked some 28,000 Tweets in three hours. By contrast, Melania Trump's custom-designed Ralph Lauren
outfit, worn with long matching gloves, stiletto shoes, and her
long hair swept up in a loose bun, had a 1960s vibe and wowed
fashionistas. Womens Wear Daily said the outfit, with its mock turtle
neck, triggered comparisons to the late U.S. first lady and
style icon Jacqueline Kennedy. Style-watchers agreed, posting archive photos of Kennedy in
a similar blue outfit for her husband's inauguration in 1961,
and giving Trump's outfit a large thumbs-up. "It was very Jackie," said Joe Zee, editor in chief of Yahoo
Style. "Melania looks every inch a first lady. So beautiful and
classy! I'm proud of her!," admirer Theodora West wrote on
Twitter. Melania Trump's Inauguration Day outfit had been the cause
of much speculation after Tom Ford, Marc Jacobs and other
leading designers said publicly they would not dress the former
model for her big day because they opposed her husband. Lauren and his eponymous corporation became
synonymous with American style through his preppy line of Polo
shirts, casual slacks and shorts in the 1970s and is regarded as
one of the most influential designers of the 20th century. Ironically, Lauren was also the designer of the pantsuits in
many colors that became Clinton's signature look. He was also
the designer Clinton chose for her own Inauguration Day outfit. Melania Trump, 46, is the first US first lady to come from
the fashion world. She began as a teen model in her native
Slovenia and has been featured on the cover of magazines like
Vogue and GQ. Standing 5 feet, 11 inches (1.8 meters) tall, she tends to
favor unfussy dresses in solid colors, tailored coats and killer
high heels. Reuters