Cape Town A decision by Lavender Hill High School not to offer pure maths to pupils and instead encourage them to opt for maths literacy has not gone down well with parents.A spokesperson for the school said the reason they were not offering pure maths was because only five pupils chose to take the subject and he did not think they had the intellectual ability to do it. The number of pupils in Grade 12 would have been five for pure maths, and only one would have been able to pass pure maths, to be honest,. the spokesperson said. Many kids here have intellectual barriers and we do not have counsellors to intervene. Our school is in the heart of gangland, there were 60 people murdered in Lavender Hill last year. In spite of efforts, the more intellectual ones go to better neighbouring schools. He said he hoped in the next two years, they would be able to offer pure maths to matrics and they were spending money and working with pupils from grades 8, 9 and 10. We would love a full class of learners to do pure maths but we need to be realistic as well. We lost two teachers last year. Parents and members of the Lavender Hill community took to Facebook to air their frustrations about the matter.Bernie Hiss confirmed that their school offered neither maths nor physics. The pupils who chose pure maths were advised to take maths literacy instead and to excel at it. Our government is complaining about schools not producing enough science and maths students for further education, and here we sit with a school that doesn t even offer the subjects. Devean Ashlene said he thought maths literacy was useless . I couldn t even apply for college or university for what I wanted to be. We were forced to take maths literacy and consumer studies because we were only one matric class, he said. I nailed the subject, but it means nothing. Sean Hendrix said: Our kids are set up for failure even before they apply for worthwhile opportunities. Lizette Booys, a maths tutor and centre coordinator at the Tabtor Maths Centre, said allowing pupils to do maths opened them up to critical thinking. Booys said she believed maths literacy was just a waste of time as it did not challenge pupils. It s very practical, I feel like they are teaching skills that have been taught in primary school You should be able to read and understand it and pass it with a minimum of 70%. Booys said resources could be a factor but that parents could also assist in helping children with maths.The Western Cape Education Department s Millicent Merton said the decision about subjects being dropped at a school depended on performance and demand. yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.zaCape Argus