Cape Town Ousted CPF chief Hanif Loonat says there is a political plot against him.The axed chairman of the Mitchells Plain Community Policing Forum Cluster claims he has proof that top cops have been planning my removal using ANC structures and offices .He claims certain officials have been hounding him for years, but vowed that he will not take the abuse lying down . I will show how these officers interfered with a case that was unjustifiably opened against me. I will show how one of these officers manipulated the board in promoting the present provincial chairperson against me. The truth will prevail, he says. This is my fourth removal in 10 years and with the support of good people I returned, through a good fight, to fight the scourges of crime. In the interim, Loonat has been replaced by Philippi CPF chairman Ebrahim Abrahams.This after seven of the eight CPF chairpersons on the Mitchells Plain cluster moved a motion of no confidence against him and voted him out last Wednesday. One abstained. Areas in the cluster include Grassy Park, Lansdowne, Mitchell s Plain, Steenberg, Athlone, Lentegeur, Strandfontein and Philippi.The motion was tabled last October already, but Loonat only stepped down last Wednesday.The outspoken Loonat served as the cluster chairperson for 18 months.He is accused of manipulating the media to promote his own agenda, and sowing division within the forum with unsubstantiated allegations and claims.He was also apparently obsessed with his failed attempt at becoming the provincial CPF chairman and threw a childish tantrum after losing the vote.Loonat was previously the provincial CPF chair but was suspended in 2013 after he claimed there was rampant corruption in the police force and that gangs were outwitting cops.Loonat has indicated he will hold a no-holds barred press conference at the Lentegeur Police Station today to clarify his position.Responding to several inquiries on Facebook on Friday, the crimefighter posted: It is also important for me to remind you that it is unfortunate that the same members of SAPS are again going to be implicated in this agenda. I will prove how these officers have been planning my removal by using ANC structures and offices and clearly making this a politically and revengeful agenda. The quicker people realise this, the better will it be for the crime challenged people of this province, he said. Daily Voice