London - A mother found her seven-year-old daughter dying in a playing field in York, England, with her throat cut.Alison Rough, 38, collapsed and sobbed: &quot;No, no it s my little girl.&quot; Her daughter, Katie, was taken to hospital but died a short time later. Police have arrested a 15-year-old girl, who remained in custody on Tuesday night.Katie s grandparents laid flowers at the scene on Tuesday. Their note said: &quot;Night night my darling princess Katie. Love Nana and Grandad.&quot;Neighbours said Katie was a delightful child and her distraught family released a picture showing her smiling in a school dress. She was found bleeding to death around 90 minutes after she finished primary school at 3pm on Monday. The discovery was made by dog walkers on a playing field a mile from school.Police refused to comment on the investigation or on how Katie died.Forensic officers spent the day at the family home in York and at the crime scene.&nbsp;Mrs Rough and her 34-year-old husband Paul, who she married only a fortnight ago, were among the first to arrive at the playing field.Rob McCartney, who lives in the adjacent cul-de-sac, heard Katie s mother shouting Help, help get an ambulance. He said he saw a child &quot;lying on the field&quot; with two police officers attending to her.&quot;I turned around and saw the mother was in a state of great distress, crying and shouting out for her daughter, it was very upsetting,&quot; said the 50-year-old consultant engineer.&quot;She was moving back and forth between the playing field and the street and was very distraught. Her husband or partner then arrived and put his arms around her trying to pacify her but their distress was obvious, it was terrible.&quot;Another resident said: &quot;The mother was on her knees in the middle of the road, crying.&quot;Katie was put into an ambulance on a stretcher while wearing an oxygen mask.Mrs Rough is believed to have travelled to the scene by car. The family home is half a mile away.Police have appealed for people who saw two girls in the area to come forward.The girl under arrest cannot be identified for legal reasons.Mrs Rough has three older children from a previous relationship and Mr Rough is a father of two.They had been together for years and had a register office marriage on December 28.A colleague at the holiday park where Mr Rough worked said: &quot;They are the last people in the world you would think something like this would happen to. It has torn them apart and will do forever. It is absolutely appalling.&quot;On Tuesday night Katie s aunt Sarah Nockels, 37, said: &quot;We are all just absolutely devastated. We just need to be given time to grieve.&quot;Christina Mercer, 24, a college administrator and neighbour of the family, said: &quot;Katie was a pretty, lively angelic-looking little girl who loved to play out with her friends in front of their home.&quot;She was a lovely, sweet, smiley little girl and the thought that this happened to her is heartbreaking, it s hard to believe.&quot;Katie was polite and funny, she liked bouncing on her trampoline with her friends and hardly ever left the front of her mum and dad s house or the square behind it as far as I know.&quot;Another neighbour, Connor Sinclair, 41, said: &quot;Katie was a really sweet girl, she always looked happy. She seemed very popular and had lots of friends, I d see them playing in the street and square.&quot;Another neighbour described Katie as a &quot;quiet, shy and pleasant little girl&quot;.Mrs Rough s ex-husband, Craig Smith, said: &quot;Alison was an absolutely brilliant mother. Those kids meant everything to her. They were always well fed, had good clothes on their backs, and were well loved.&quot;She must be heartbroken. She doted on her kids all the time. They came first regardless. She had a big family but there was plenty of love to go around. She was a wonderful mother and always put them first.&quot;Detective Chief Inspector Dave Ellis of North Yorkshire Police said on Tuesday: &quot;Officers attending found a seven-year-old girl with life-threatening injuries.&quot;She was take to York District Hospital but sadly died a short time later.&quot;A 15-year-old girl has been arrested in connection with the incident and remains in police custody.&quot;Officers have conducted house-to-house inquiries in the area and remain working at the scene while the investigation continues.&quot;Specially trained officers are supporting the victim s family as this is an extremely difficult time for them. The circumstances require the investigation to be carried out in a sensitive manner.&quot;Tracey Ralph, headmistress at Westfield Primary School where Katie was a pupil, said: &quot;Katie was a kind and thoughtful child who was well liked by both pupils and staff. She was hardworking and showed a particular talent for creative writing.&quot;Her death is a terrible loss which has deeply saddened our school community and we send our profound sympathies to her family.&quot;All members of our school are being offered emotional support at this distressing time.&quot;Additional reporting: Chris Greenwood Daily Mail