Cape Town A Bonteheuwel community is living in fear after criminals petrol-bombed a pensioner s house, allegedly over drug turf.Residents say they ve been warned by members of a particular gang not to speak out about the attack. They warned us to keep our bek &nbsp;about drug dealing here or they will be back to petrol-bomb more Wendy houses, one resident says. ( They warned us to keep quiet about drug dealing here or they will be back to petrol-bomb more Wendy houses. ) They think it s us who piemp them to police, but it s not. ( They think it s us who tattle them to police, but it s not. )In the early hours of Thursday morning, Magadien Aynodien s Wendy house was petrol-bombed in Boekenhout Street.The 62-year old says: It was just after 4am and I heard something like water being poured on the roof. It just sounded like running water. The next moment, toe hoor ek net ba! and I realised I had to get out or burn to death.&quot; ( The next moment, I heard a ba! and I realised I had to get out or burn to death.&quot;) The structure was already completely on fire and I tried to save some stuff, but I could not. Magadien, who lives alone, says he has no idea why he was attacked. Ek is nie by drugs betrokke nie en weet nie hoekom die gebeur het nie. Ek het alles verloor, daar is niks vir my oor nie, he adds. (&quot;I don't do drugs and I don't know why it happened. I lost everything. There is nothing left for me.&quot;)Some of the neighbouring properties were also affected and Ward Councillor for the area, Angus McKenzie, said it was a shame that once again drug-related crime was affecting innocent people . Everything was destroyed in the fire, also affecting neighbouring properties. Thankfully no one was injured, says McKenzie.He says police and law enforcement officers have been dispatched to the area to keep an eye on the street and are doing regular patrols.Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, says an investigation is underway: Kindly be advised that an arson case has been opened for investigation after a Wendy house was set alight at Boekenhout Street, Bonteheuwel.&quot; No one has been arrested at this stage. The investigation is ongoing. Daily Voice