London - We ve had Brexit means Brexit, red, white and blue Brexit and the repeated promise to seek the best possible deal. Now investors and lawmakers have a date in the diary from Prime Minister Theresa May for more details about her strategy for removing the UK from the European Union.Next Tuesday is the day she will set out her vision for Brexit and creating a truly global Britain, &nbsp;her spokeswoman said yesterday. Onlookers will be seeking answers to many questions, among them: how does May plan to curtail immigration, and will she unilaterally let EU citizens stay in the UK? Is she going to pull the Britain out of the single market and/or customs union and if so, what model of trade does she want? Will she try to protect the finance industry? Does she want a transitional deal to the new regime?Listeners might still not get much insight, with May repeatedly saying she doesn t want to reveal too much of her negotiating position early on as she plans to trigger the withdrawal by the end of March.Currency traders are already nervous. A one-week measure of anticipated price swings for the pound climbed to the highest in two months on the news alone that May will speak.Meanwhile in Bloomberg Businessweek, Tim Ross explains how preparing for&nbsp;Brexit just got harder&nbsp;as May marks six months in office.Message from MaltaMay is just one side of the negotiating table, and it s her EU interlocutors who may ultimately have the whip hand.The message sent this week from Malta, which holds the EU s rotating presidency, doesn t bode well.While he said nobody is out to destroy the British economy, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said he doubted Europe s common front will fracture and that it s very obvious any deal must be inferior for the UK than EU membership is. He also said European courts will have some jurisdiction over the UK through any transitional phase.&nbsp;Finance Minister Edward Scicluna was even harsher, betting Britain will blink first in the discussions.Blissful no more?One thing in May s favour has been the resilience of the economy to the Brexit vote, yet a new index from Bloomberg Intelligence suggests the mood is shifting.BI s Bliss Index, an amalgamation of growth, employment, uncertainty, and inflation measures, now sits just above the zero mark that divides above and below-average levels of well-being. Excluding the post-referendum dip, the gauge is now at its lowest level since June 2013.Read also: Brexit: May plans timetable for EU divorce Heightened uncertainty has caused the index to drop off since the referendum, said Bloomberg Intelligence economist Dan Hanson. It s likely the gauge will fall further in 2017 as households feel the pinch of a sterling-led bout of higher inflation. Retailers, including Next and closely held John Lewis, this week warned that the year ahead will be tough as inflation kicks in. Still, Tesco, J Sainsbury and Marks &amp; Spencer all enjoyed a lift over Christmas.What s equivalence?Banks may be lowering their expectations of what can be achieved in Brexit negotiations.Having once sought to maintain so-called passporting rights to enable them to access the EU from bases in the UK, executives and lobby groups are now increasingly discussing equivalence, which would require the UK and EU to pursue similar regulatory standards.And finally...Brexit just cut the cost of that dream sports car. As long as you live in Ireland.Mercedes-Benz is reducing new car prices there by 10 percent because of Brexit, a move it says is designed to support distributors after the slump in the pound made UK imports cheaper. At 14 Irish dealerships, the top-of-the-range Mercedes-AMG GT S now costs 225 000 ($240,000), saving about 25 000, reports Bloomberg s Dara Doyle. Like the UK, Ireland has right-hand drive, plus it has the euro, said Ashley Winston, who sources cars on request across the UK from his London base. So Irish drivers are almost uniquely placed to take advantage of Brexit. Bloomberg