Rustenburg The police tortured one of the men accused of murder in Marikana and promised him &quot;cheese&quot; if he co-operated with them, the Rustenburg Magistrate's Court heard on Monday. Aubrey Seitsang told the court that he was arrested on December 12, at his workplace in Marikana and taken to Klerksdorp where he was tortured by the police. &quot;Warrant Officer [Victor] Ramorwesi asked me to co-operate with them, if I co-operate I will get a cheese. I told him I got paid on December 9, and have cheese at home I do not want his cheese,&quot; he told the court. &quot;I was tied onto a chair with masking type, a bag was put on my head, I suffocated each time a breath. Electric shock were shot through my body and I was also assaulted. I urinated blood the following day and was never taken to a doctor.&quot; It was not clear what &quot;cheese&quot; meant. Warrant Officer Ramorwesi is the lead investigator in the case involving murder in Marikana. Seitsang who has been denied bail, was testifying in the bail application of his co-accused William Nyenyane. The State alleges that Aubrey Seitsang, Sibonile Sobopha, Mdlondozi Fundiwo, Herbert Baqhesi, William Nyenane and Napoleon Webster hacked Sabata Petros Chale to death in Marikana West, on December 8 last year, allegedly over the allocation of low cost houses (RDP). Chale was chased by a group of about 30 people and was hacked to death with pangas, axes and spears. He died at the scene. This was after residents of Marikana West marched to the Marikana police station and allegedly told the police that their residential area was a no go area for the police. Seitsang denied killing Chale and drinking his blood or submitting admission statements to the police implicating his co-accused. &quot;My hands are clean. I did not kill anyone I do not know what can be done to proof that I did not drink anyone's blood. I did not submit any statement to the police. In fact I refused. I told them I have a lawyer representing me.&quot; He said the police showed him a list of people and asked him to cooperate with them. &quot;I only saw our ward councillor's name at the bottom of the list. None of the accused before court were on that list. There were women's name like Sweetness...&quot; He admitted that he was part of community members who marched to the Marikana police station to raise their concerns about the conduct of the police who were allegedly biased to a section of the community. He said he carried a stick because he had a problem with his knee and used it to walk, other members of the group carried tree branches while some of the men carried sticks, he however said he did not see anyone armed with an axe, spear or panga, explaining that he was at the back of the group. The case was postponed to February 7, for further evidence. The defence is expected to call Seitsang to the witness stand to testify about her husband whereabouts on December 8. African News Agency