Durban - While many believe the pressures of matric end with the final exam, the announcement of matric results can be a stressful period for many school leavers.The South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) said many school leavers could face an emotional upheaval with the coming announcement of matric results, and said talking through this stressful episode was the greatest form of coping.Durban-based educational psychologist Susan Cloete said the stresses matrics faced went beyond passing and failing. If results are poor, for many it represents a lost opportunity. For those who pass, and even excel, it could trigger the anxiety of sustaining an education or the possibility of not being gainfully employed, she said. This is a tough time for matriculants and their parents. There s a lot of pressure and high expectations to perform, and those who don t do as well as they had hoped can feel dejected and hopeless. Cloete said inner resilience, family and community support were necessary to cope in this period. Parents should look out for depression signs such as moodiness, irritability, sudden changes in behaviour, self-imposed isolation, a change in sleep patterns and appetite, taking more risks that seem out of character and even physical complaints such as tension headaches, body pains and nausea.Self-medicating with alcohol or drugs might also become evident. When these signs are present, she emphasised that talking about problems was the best way to get through them. Encourage the person to speak to someone, and even encourage others like family, friends and the community to have a joint counselling session. And if you feel overwhelmed by the consequences of your matric results or your future, and you don t feel you can speak to a friend, family member or someone from your community, call anyone you trust. There is no need to feel ashamed or helpless. Former Apollo Secondary School head girl Yashna Sukdeo, 19, who scored eight distinctions in matric, said that although she had been a top achiever throughout her school years, she did experience anxiety in the time leading up to the release of the matric results. I was scared that if I didn t get eight distinctions, I would disappoint the entire community because everyone counted on me. It s a huge responsibility that weighed heavily on me, she said.Sukdeo advised against stressing. No matter how much you worry, it won t change the outcome. Just be positive, believe that you gave it your best. She also advised against bottling up negative feelings, and instead said those awaiting results should lean on their support systems to get through the stressful period.Lifeline s Hendrieeta Khupe said stress was an inevitable aspect of life and advised matrics to remember what they could affect and what they couldn t. If you think the exams did not go so well, investigate a possible plan B - other places to study, perhaps part time, she said.Lifeline can be contacted at 0800150150 and Sadag at 0800121314 or SMS 31393.Sunday Tribune