Madrid - Banco Santander said fourth-quarter profit rose
to 1.6 billion euros ($1.72 billion) on lower provisions for bad loans and
higher income from fees and from its business in Brazil. Net income at Spain’s biggest bank compared with 25
million euros a year earlier when profit was hit by charges, including
provisions for the wrongful sale in the UK of payment protection insurance.
Analysts had expected earnings of 1.48 billion euros, the average of five
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Chairman Ana Botin is counting on business in emerging
markets and in consumer finance to help offset low interest rates in Europe,
growing regulatory costs and weak demand for credit at home. The bank in
September lowered its profitability target for 2018, citing diminished
prospects for growth, especially after the U.K vote to leave the European
Union. Britain contributes about a fifth of the bank’s profit. “Going forward, we have many opportunities for profitable
growth in Europe and the Americas, in an environment we anticipate will be
volatile but generally better than 2016,” Botin said in a statement Wednesday. The stock has gained more than 28 percent in the past
year, compared with a 10 percent increase in the benchmark STOXX Europe 600
Banks Price Index. Read also: Santander builds up capital Net interest income, or revenue generated from the
difference between what banks charge for loans and pay for deposits, rose 2.6
percent from a year earlier to 8.1 billion euros, Santander said in the
statement. It jumped 3.8 percent from the previous quarter. Profit from Brazil, now in its third year of recession,
rose 60 percent when reported in euros and 34 percent in local currency. Net
fees jumped 41 percent while net interest income in the unit rose 19 percent. Santander’s British business had little change in its net
profit at 474 million euros in the fourth quarter in euros but was up 19
percent when reported in pounds. Profit more than doubled in Spain, while net
interest income fell 4 percent. Net loan loss provisions fell to 2.4 billion euros in the
fourth quarter from 2.6 billion euros a year earlier. Net fee income rose 8
percent. Santander’s fully loaded common equity Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of financial strength, rose to 10.55 percent from 10.47 percent in the
third quarter. Santander is seeking to lift the ratio, still low compared with
European peers, above 11 percent by 2018. Bad loans as a proportion of total
lending at the bank dropped to 3.93 percent from 4.15 percent at the end of
September. Bloomberg