Johannesburg - World No 2 Rory McIlroy says he didn’t come to South Africa to only enjoy a bush holiday; he’s also aiming to lift the South African Open title at Glendower on Sunday. The tournament tees off on Thursday with the Northern Irishman the hot favourite in a field that includes Ernie Els, Retief Goosen and defending champions Brandon Stone, but not South Africa’s big three - Branden Grace, Charl Schwartzel and Louis Oosthuizen. McIlroy is in South Africa for the first time since missing out on featuring in a playoff when the SA Open was played at Pearl Valley in 2008. He says he wants to go one better at Glendower this week. “I missed out on the playoff by one shot in 2008, but that tournament got me into the top 50 in the world for the first time. I have good memories of playing in South Africa and the SA Open, but I’d love to go a couple spots better this time,” said McIlroy. It was his first look at Glendower and he says he’s impressed with the layout and condition of the course. He’s also pretty happy with his game despite not playing competitive for quite a few weeks. “I’ve been working hard. I spent the week before Christmas in Dubai practising, then I took a week off, and then went back to Dubai and worked there for 10 days until I came down here. “I’m in competitive mode, make no mistake. Sure knowing I was coming down here for the first time in a while I wanted to do something different and I went on a safari, got into the bush, which was wonderful, so while there may be a bit of rust it’s nothing I can’t shake off. “I’m not here to enjoy myself... I want to play well and get my confidence up from the beginning of the year.” McIlroy said he felt better and better yesterday as his pro-am round went on in the warm and balmy Highveld sun. “The first few holes weren’t great, but once I got into rhythm it was good. “There’s been a lot of rain about so the course is soft. There will be a premium on hitting the fairways. If you hit them you’re going to score well, especially with the greens holding. “Once I got going I hit it well, made a few birdies. Today was about me getting to know the course, knowing what lines to hit, seeing the tees, and choosing what clubs to hit. I felt comfortable at the end. I’ll come back tomorrow and maybe squeeze in nine more holes. I’ll also get in some more practice and then I’ll be ready on Thursday.” Independent Media 