TERRY Pheto had a busy 2016 and decided to take time off with a vacation in Australia, and what a fun time she is having. The 35-year-old Tsotsi actress has made many of us jealous over her drool worthy photos, so casually taken it’s Instagram gold. Unlike other local celebrities who are flashing the high life with their holiday photos, Pheto is mellow, allowing her classic looks and the beauty of Australia shine through in her pictures. Whether she is posing in front of the Sydney Opera House, beaching in Bondi Beach or lunching at the Bucket List, Pheto looks sexy doing it. We have selected some of her memorable looks in Australia: Look 1: Sydney Opera House  Terry Pheto is known for her African inspired outfits, and this one is no different. This colourful ensemble is beaded and adorned with different prints. She pairs them with drop earrings and matching beaded summer sandals. In some of her posts on Instagram, she shows off her toned legs. The photo is taken at the iconic Sydney Opera House, a multi-venue performing arts centre in Sydney, Australia. It is known as one of the 20th century's most famous and distinctive buildings. Look 2: Bondi, New South Wales, Australia This photograph literally broke the internet, and for all the right reasons. Pheto is a curvy woman and her blue and white patterned custom accentuates it perfectly. The actress is posing in front of a love artwork with her hands etched in a heart shape.She was at Bondi, an eastern suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales. In another Instagram post in the same location, Pheto stuns in a giraffe print dress with a long lined denim jacket. She keeps it classy yet casual. She accessorised with drop stem earrings and a classic black bag. Look 3: The Bucket List, Bondi Beach ‘Cocktail o’clock’ was the caption posted on Instagram. Wearing a sleek white ensemble, Pheto wined and dined after her swim on the beach. In a series of photos, including this one featuring a bar man that looks like he is preparing her a drink, Pheto wears a white short pants that is paired with a white sleeveless top with tattles at the bottom. The outfit is complete with sandals that she wore in look one. The Bucket List, situated at Bondi Beach is a colourful joint with outdoor beachfront seating. Look 4: Chinatown, Sydney Pheto shows off her playful side as she plays around with a clown. On her Instagram caption, she uses a Mark Twain quote, that read: “The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter.” She wears a slick blue lady pirate styled shirt and a denim shorts. Sydney's Chinatown is an urban locality in the southern part of the Sydney central business district, in New South Wales, Australia. It is located in Haymarket, between Central Station and Darling Harbour. It is known for its great food and markets. Look 5: Red Leaf Beach Pheto shows off her playful side at Redleaf Beach that is situated in Double Bay precinct. She wears a daring Leopard Frock black see through pleated skirt that she paired with a red blouse with red stemmed flowers. The location of the photograph is an idyllic Sydney harbourside beaches you just want to visit. There is a wrap-around pontoon which makes for a lovely walk and the restaurants will satisfy any hunger.