Cape Town Abandoned as a baby, Ysterplaat Primary School pupil Matthew van Hansen, 13, is going from strength to strength after starting ballroom dancing only last January.The youngster and his partner, Kayleigh Lakay, achieved fifth place in both the provincial and national Latin and ballroom tournaments for their age group last year.Proud father Riaan van Hansen said he still remembered the sight of the baby that his then-wife, a nurse at Groote Schuur Hospital, showed him in 2005. I noticed how malnourished he was with an enlarged head and big eyes after he was found wrapped in newspaper with ants all over him. Thankfully, his biological mother called the authorities and that s how he ended up in our care, said Van Hansen.He said he and his wife divorced, were unemployed and even ended up living in a shack in Ysterplaat before he got his job as live-in caretaker at the school. Matthew chose to stay with me and, even though he can be naughty, he is still my little blessing. Ballroom has improved his behaviour and kept him focused, said Van Hansen.Teacher and ballroom instructor Angelo Harding said Matthew was a natural. He couldn t keep his eyes off the dancers but when I asked if he wanted to join us, he would just say no. Eventually he asked to take part and soon I had to move him to a more advanced group, said Harding. Achieving fifth place, considering they were participating against more experienced dancers, is remarkable. Our only challenge is sponsorships as many of our young dancers need backing to participate in competitions, said Harding.Matthew said he was shy in the beginning and considered ballroom a sissy activity. I always wanted to do something in engineering, but now I want to keep dancing and competing. Hopefully I can start my own studio and maybe teach kids like me, he said.With the possibility of ballroom becoming an Olympic event, he envisions himself representing his country one day. Anyone who would like to get involved can contact Harding on 073 727 7708. dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.zaCape Times