Cape Town A taxi driver accused of taking part in an armed robbery at a tavern involving R150 000 was refused bail when he appeared in the Strand District Court on Wednesday. Bonginkosi Maneli, 28, appeared before magistrate Karen Scheepers, who ruled that there were no exceptional circumstances to render his release on bail in the interests of justice. Maneli was remanded to March 1. The case involved two taxi drivers an innocent one who had witnessed the alleged robbery, and managed to flag down the police as Maneli tried to escape, and Maneli himself. The court accepted the testimony of the investigating officer, Sergeant Salakuva Nyelwa, that to release Maneli on bail was to place the lives of innocent people in danger . He told the court it was in the interests of justice to ensure peace and stability in the community. Nyelwa was subjected to gruelling cross-examination from defence attorney Lawrence Moffitt, who claimed that his client had merely given the other three a lift, and that he had dropped them off innocently in Lwandle. The alleged robbery happened at a tavern in the Strand, on December 13 last year. The magistrate said armed robberies in the Strand had reached epidemic proportions, and that prosecutor Doreen van Zyl in fact had a strong case against Maneli. The court heard that the innocent taxi driver was behind Maneli s taxi, when Maneli s vehicle suddenly stopped outside a tavern and four men, including Maneli, had jumped out and ran into the tavern. The four men returned soon afterwards, and jumped back into Maneli s taxi which sped away. Because the men were armed, the innocent driver was afraid to chase after the fleeing taxi, but followed it as best he could, according to Nyelwa. Apparently realising that they were being followed, the other three jumped out of the vehicle and fled on foot into nearby shacks in Lwandle. When Maneli's taxi fled down a side street, the innocent driver managed to flag down nearby police, and informed them of what had happened. The police gave chase but, a it happened, the side street ran into a dead end, and Maneli was arrested. The police traced the empty taxi to Maneli s mother, who was not even aware that it was missing, Nyelwa told the court. The magistrate said the way Maneli had sped away from the tavern after the alleged robbery, was typical of a driver trying to escape, and not the way an ordinary motorist, driving casually, would have driven. African News Agency