Durban As the families of those killed and injured in last week s taxi crash in Ntuzuma battle to come to terms with their loss, the mother of the 29-year-old driver of the taxi that killed four pupils on their way to school is finding it difficult to face the victims families.Sixty-three-old Esther Zisongo, who lost her sight last year, said her heart was bleeding for the victims of the crash between a bus and the taxi on Ingcebo Road last Wednesday morning.The taxi, ferrying pupils to different schools as well as other passengers, was reported to have been overloaded when it crashed head-on with the empty bus. My son was driving that taxi. I have no words to express my pain and sorrow for the families of all the affected children. My heart is heavy; I cannot imagine how those families must be feeling right now. Only God knows what these families are going through. What befell them should not happen to any parent. I m hurt; I don t even have the strength to face my neighbours. I didn t even go to church on Sunday. This is weighing heavily on my conscience, and my heart is bleeding for the families for their loss, said Zisongo.She said she last spoke to her son on Tuesday evening, and that she feared for her life because there were men who broke into her son s room hours after the crash. I heard footsteps and there was a group of people who dashed past the main house to the backyard. My two grandchildren told me a group of men broke into my son s room. It is obvious they were looking for him, but he was not there. They did not take his belongings. I don t know what would have happened had they found him, she said.With tears streaming down her face, Zisongo said she had been forced to look after her 3-year-old grandson as her son had not returned home. She also cares for her other son s 5-year-old granddaughter. He is a truck driver who spends most of his time on the road.She said she heard different stories on how the crash occurred. Some say he was speeding; some say the taxi was overloaded, while others say he was drunk. I don t know what s what. I m worried about him, but my heart goes out to those families and may the Lord grant them strength to pull through this challenge, she said.Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, provincial police spokeswoman, said the taxi driver had not been arrested and the investigation was ongoing. On the day of the accident, police took him in for alcohol tests and he was released. Police could not arrest him because at that stage it was not clear who was at fault, hence the ongoing investigation. On the day of the accident, all the witnesses were traumatised and some were screaming, so police could not get statements from them. Once the investigation is completed, and if it points to negligence on his part, then he will be charged.Attempts to get comment from the taxi owner were unsuccessful. A woman who identified herself as her daughter said the taxi owner was not feeling well.Daily News