Johannesburg – ANC member Shaka Sisulu has broken his silence on the R50 million alleged covert project to target opposition parties during last year’s local government elections. Sihle Bolani had claimed in her papers in the High Court on Tuesday that she was part of a team working on the “War Room” project with Sisulu and others. But the ANC denied this saying this was a voluntary programme and there was no contract to pay Bolani millions of rand. Sisulu dismissed claims by Bolani saying they were false. “These reports are inherently false, exaggerated and no doubt intended to discredit, in part my reputation, and most significantly the name of the African National Congress,” he said. He added that he will be able to dismiss the claims by Bolani were he to get an opportunity to state his case in court. The Joburg High Court dismissed the matter saying the application by Bolani was not urgent.     However, a letter from ANC general manager Ignatius Jacobs seemed to support her claim that there was an agreement on the settlement of R1m with Bolani last December. Bolani said out of the R1m settlement with the ANC she only received R100 00 and she is demanding the balance. In another development Bolani has claimed that she has been threatened after the “War Room” operation became public. But the ANC has insisted that she was a volunteer, a position she has disputed. Sisulu denied that the operation was covert as claimed by Bolani in the court papers. He said he had worked with Bolani, but denied that the operation was covert. Bolani said the campaign was targeting the DA and EFF during last year’s polls where the ANC lost two key metros. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Wednesday they will report the matter to the Independent Electoral Commission when he meets with the IEC in the coming weeks. He said their lawyers were already looking at possible legal action against the ANC for the covert operation. The DA said earlier it would report the ANC to the Electoral Court for violating the laws governing the election campaigns. Political Bureau