Johannesburg - South African new vehicle sales were in the doldrums again last year as the economy continued to bite, but this hasn’t stopped motor companies from planning a barrage of new cars for our shores. From modest hatches to snarling sports cars, here are the new models headed our way in 2017: Alfa Romeo The much anticipated Giulia, which is an Italian rival for 3 Series, C-Class and A4, should arrive in the year’s first quarter. This rear-wheel drive sedan will come in various 2-litre turbo guises, but a flagship 375kW/600Nm Quadrifoglio version is also on the way. Alfa’s new Stelvio SUV is at this point unconfirmed for 2017, but could well launch before year end. Audi Expect a four-ring onslaught this year with planned Audi launches including the Q2 compact crossover in February, and the all-new A5/S5 in March. An A5 Sportback will follow shortly after. The next generation Q5 and A5 Cabrio should also launch around July. On the performance front, we’ll get the R8 Spyder, TTRS, and RS3 sedan sometime in the second quarter, while the tweaked RS3 Sportback and RS5 Coupé land near year end. Bentley The luxury British brand will launch its first oil-burner this year when the diesel version of the Bentayga SUV comes out. Its 4-litre V8 diesel pushes out a mountain-tackling 320kW and 900Nm. BMW The ludicrous, long-wheelbase M760Li super limo should arrive early this year with 448kW and 800Nm of all-wheel driven turbo V12 power. Expect the hi-tech seventh generation 5 Series late next month or early March, and also in March comes a plug-in hybrid version of the 3 Series called the 330e iPerformance. A special M4 DTM Championship Edition is also on the way with launch timing to be confirmed. Chevrolet Won’t confirm anything. Citroën The French brand has quit the country. Datsun No plans for 2017. Ferrari The successor to Ferrari’s FF model, the new GTC4Lusso, is scheduled to land in South Africa around the end of April. Like the FF, the Lusso is designed with a shooting-brake body style and gets 507kW and 697Nm of V12 power directed through all four wheels. Fiat A stylish new Fiat Tipo sedan is on the cards in the first quarter, with a hatch version arriving later. The Fullback bakkie also gets a diesel engine option in single cab guise, while the double cab range is expanded with an automatic gearbox. Both are planned for the second quarter. A replacement for the big Scudo van, called the Tango, arrives around the same time. Ford It’ll be a quiet year for Ford (in terms of products at least), with only the facelifted Kuga due sometime in the second quarter. But will anyone trust it? Jeep Honda Honda has a facelifted Ballade coming sometime in the first quarter, and a completely new CR-V coming later in the year. Hyundai A small SUV called the Creta will fill the gap under Hyundai’s Tucson in February, and around the same time a facelifted version of the Grand i10 hatch is planned. Later in the year we’ll see the launch of the all-new i30, and possibly even some go-faster bits from the brand’s new N Sport performance division. Infiniti Can’t confirm anything at this point. Isuzu Won’t confirm anything. Jaguar A facelifted F-Type range will launch early in May. Kia Korean brand Kia confirms all-new Rio and Picanto models, but can’t yet say when in the year they’ll arrive. Land Rover In July Land Rover will launch its all new Discovery SUV. Lamborghini There are two special Lambo models in store for our market this year, with a track-focused lightweight version of Huracan called the Performante and a revised flagship Aventador called the 740S. Lexus Japanese luxury carmaker Lexus will launch its stunning new LC500 large luxury coupé here in mid-2017. It’s powered by a normally aspirated 5-litre V8 packing 351kW. Mazda Mazda will introduce a retractable hard-top version of its MX-5 called the RF early this year, followed by a facelift of its BT-50 bakkie. In the third quarter we can also expect the all new CX-5 SUV, together with a new derivative of the small Mazda2 hatch. Mercedes-Benz A big push on AMG 43 models takes place in February, and will include turbo V6 versions of the C-Class, C-Coupe, GLC, GLC Coupe, GLE, and GLE Coupe. The GLA crossover hatch gets a facelift in the second quarter, with an all-new E-Class Coupe arriving with similar timing. The AMG GT loses its lid with a Roadster version in quarter two, and should coincide with the rest of the beefed up and facelifted GT range, which includes the 430kW GT R. An E-Class Cabriolet comes next in the third quarter, while the S-Class gets a facelift near year end. Mini Mini’s plans include a hotted-up John Cooper Works version of the Clubman late in February or early March, with the all-new Countryman hot on its heels a little later. Mitsubishi Things have been quiet on the Mitsubishi front in recent times, but the year opens with the launch of the all-new Triton double cab next week, an revised Outlander SUV in February, and an all-new Pajero Sport mid-year. There’s also a facelifted ASX crossover coming in January, and some additional Triton models in the third quarter. Nissan The second-generation Navara bakkie, complete with multi-link coil spring rear suspension will launch imminently, followed by the new Micra hatch, now based on the Renault Clio, and facelifts of the Qashqai and X-Trail. Opel Won’t confirm anything Peugeot The new 2008 and 3008 crossover SUVs arrive around March. A new 8-seater bus called the Traveller should arrive around September, and the 308 hatch also gets a styling adjustment late in the year. Porsche Won’t confirm anything. Renault Renault will join the bakkie fray with its new Oroch double cab late in the year, but before that we can expect a facelifted Sandero hatch, an automatic Duster, an updated Captur, and limited edition Kadjars and Meganes in that order. The attractive new Koleos SUV is also scheduled for launch in the third quarter. Smart No plans. Subaru It’ll be another quiet year for Subaru, but a new XV crossover is expected near the end of the year. Its arrival will coincide with the introduction of the brand’s new EyeSight safety technology, which includes auto braking, lane guidance and radar cruise control. Suzuki Suzuki’s ever-growing line-up will be joined by the Ignis baby SUV, which arrives around mid-year to compete against the Opel Adam Rocks and VW Cross Up. Toyota Toyota SA kicks off the year with a bang with the launch of its new C-HR compact crossover, and shortly after that it plans to introduce a facelifted Corolla and a tweaked version of the Etios hatch called the Sprint. Later in the year we can also expect some subtle changes to the Yaris and 86. Volkswagen A spicy-looking Polo 1.0 TSI R-Line will be introduced together with a 2-litre TDI engine in the Tiguan next month, and the Beetle gets a facelift in May. Then in July, both the Golf and Amarok get some model enhancements. Volvo The next instalment of the rejuvenated Volvo brand sees the high-tech new S90 sedan arriving in quarter one. We can also look forward to a burly-looking V90 Cross Country wagon later in the year. Star Motoring