Durban - A Durban teenager s hope of being classified as alive will soon come true but it took a near-death experience for it to happen.The thirteen-year-old girl is recovering in hospital after she tried to commit suicide earlier this week because she could not register for high school as she had no birth certificate.The Department of Home Affairs confirmed on Friday night that her case was receiving high-level attention .Her mom told The Independent on Saturday that she had struggled to enrol her daughter into a high school because she did not have a birth certificate for her child. She was born on November 18, 2003. I was told to wait for her birth certificate and to return the following year in March. I did as I was told, but when I went to Home Affairs the next year, I found out she was declared dead, and I wasn t able to get a birth certificate for her, the mom said.Since then, it has been a long battle for the teen. I tried numerous times to inform the Home Affairs that my daughter was alive. Every time, they would make excuses about why they couldn t help me. We told them that we had proof she was alive, but they kept ignoring us, I didn t know what to do. The mom tried in vain to enrol her daughter at Rossburgh High School earlier this week. In the past, principals have accommodated her because they knew her and understood her situation. But this time, there was no one to help, she said.Now her case is receiving the attention it has needed after more than a decade. The school has accepted her after Home Affairs issued a letter stating she is alive. She is set to attend school as soon she recovers. She s feeling much better and looking forward to high school, said the mom, adding that she was told to return in June for her daughter s birth certificate. Tersia Hanekom, district manager for the Department of Home Affairs, said the teen's case was receiving high-level attention, and officials hoped to get to the bottom of the matter as soon as possible. We contacted the school to ask if the principal would accept the letter, and he said he would, and her place is secure at the school. He said he was also awaiting other documents from the mother. We also want the public to know that if they are having a problem, they can go to someone more senior, or contact the numbers listed on the posters in our offices, said Hanekom. Independent on Saturday