Johannesburg Clothing and homeware retailer Mr Price says income grew 0.4 percent in the three months to December, while inflation was above 10 percent. This comes despite December usually being a bonanza period for retailers because of the festive season and January s school open. In a statement published on Tuesday, the company said total sales came in at R6.4 billion, while retail sales were R6.1 billion, 0.5 lower year-on-year. Stripping out the bonus of 53 weeks in the year to April, Mr Price said sales growth in its wholly-owned stores came in at between 5 percent and -0.6 percent. All its brands, which includes Miladys and Sheet Street, experienced declines when it comes to comparable store sales which strips out additional stores, with the exception of Sheet Street. On the same like-for-like basis, monthly sales growth reflected an improving trend in festive season trade. Group sales in December increased by 3.9 percent. Cash sales, which constitute 83.2 percent of total sales, decreased by 0.5 percent. Credit sales growth, which had slowed significantly as a result of consumer caution and legislative changes impacting new account applications, showed an improvement from the reduction at the half year, and increased by 0.3 percent over the corresponding period. Read also: New credit regulations upset Mr Price's salesThe debtors book, which grew by 1.8 percent at period end, continued its positive performance, with collections for the quarter exceeding forecast. Mr Price notes the difficult trading environment experienced previously has extended into the second half. Poor economic growth, low levels of consumer confidence and higher selling prices driven by a weak and volatile exchange rate has resulted in a very competitive retail environment, with persisting high levels of price discounting and promotional activity. Retail selling price inflation for the period was 10.8 percent. Mr Price says any improvement in economic growth and consumer health is likely to be gradual. Despite this, the group is hopeful that a more settled economic environment will aid planning and result in lower merchandise input costs. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE &nbsp;