New York - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company wrongfully fired a financial adviser in retaliation for publicly complaining that managers pressured him to sell the bank s own investment products, a federal investigator found.JPMorgan said it will appeal the finding awarding&nbsp;Johnny Burris $64 400 in back wages and $100 000 for reputational damage, pain and suffering. The finding by an investigator for the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration was released Tuesday.OSHA, which is part of the Labour Department, determined that JPMorgan s decision to terminate Burris resulted in part from employee behaviour protected under the anti-retaliation provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. An appeal would be considered by an administrative law judge. Burris previously raised these same claims to a FINRA panel, with the same basic evidence, and the claims were denied, JPMorgan spokeswoman Patricia Wexler said in an e-mailed statement. We look forward to presenting our case in the next step of this process and putting this to rest. Read also: Latter joins JP MorganUnder the OSHA finding, JPMorgan would have to clear an industry complaint it wrongfully listed against him and expunge his industry employment record, known as a U5. It would also have to pay him reasonable attorney s fees.Limited damagesBurris expressed dissatisfaction with the decision. They ruled in my favour but tried to limit the damages to the bank,&quot; he said.The arbitration decision by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority was based on a complaint faulted by the OSHA investigator, Burris said.OSHA s San Francisco office, which handled the case, didn t respond to a request seeking comment on the finding.Burris began working as a Chase Private Client adviser in Sun City West, Arizona, in June 2010. Shortly afterward, he started voicing complaints internally about being pressured by managers to sell more of the bank s products to his elderly clientele, even if there were better investment options for them. Burris also provided information about his concerns to the New York Times, which featured him in a July 2012 article.In the following months, Burris s managers frequently discussed how he was selling a low percentage of JPMorgan-managed products, according to OSHA s written finding. Burris was fired by the bank in November 2012. A JPMorgan manager went outside firm procedure, turned an oral customer complaint into a written one and required Burris to list it on his employment record, likely blacklisting him and causing him reputational harm, according to the OSHA finding. Bloomberg&nbsp;