JOHANNESBURG – Russell Domingo and Faf du Plessis want answers from AB de Villiers about whether he’s interested in continuing as a Test-match player. The national coach and the Test captain said on Saturday, after the Proteas had wrapped up a comprehensive 3-0 series clean sweep of Sri Lanka, that they were yet to hear from De Villiers about whether he wanted to add to his 106 Test caps. “I’m not sure how AB will feel in terms of Test cricket,” said Du Plessis. “We are excited to have him back in the one-day team. I’m hoping he will decide to play for us. As captain, I’d love to have him as a leader in the team. He’s a fantastic cricketer.” Domingo said that he wanted to meet with De Villiers once he was back in the Proteas set-up, hopefully after he’d proved his fitness in a semi-professional game for Northerns next week. “We need to sit down and plan his future. AB’s got to make that decision... he has to make the decision that he’s available (for Test matches). He has to make some decisions about his future in cricket.” De Villiers was at the Wanderers before the start of the Test when the players were doing their warm-ups on Thursday morning. He shared some hugs and laughs with teammates and chatted briefly to Domingo as well. The soon-to-be 33-year-old De Villiers has been unavailable for selection since undergoing surgery for an elbow he damaged while playing in the Caribbean Premier League last July. He played the last of his 106 Tests a year ago at SuperSport Park, bagging a “pair” against England. Last season, De Villiers’ remarks that he wasn’t sure he could play in all three formats at international level because of the packed playing schedule caused ructions throughout the game. However, a lucrative new bat deal with Indian company MRF – which will see De Villiers use equipment with the company’s branding on it – was understood to include clauses that demanded he play in all three formats at international level. With South Africa playing high-profile Test series against England and India this year, that multi-million dollar three-year deal would certainly have garnered a lot of publicity. Domingo and Du Plessis expect De Villiers to be back for the five-match ODI series against Sri Lanka, where he will resume the captaincy. “When the one-dayers start, we’ll see what AB’s plans are,” said Du Plessis. Having led the side successfully all season – including a clean sweep of the Australians in a five-match ODI series last September and then winning a Test series in Australia – Du Plessis said he’ll have no problem relinquishing the captaincy. “Not at all, that will be an easy transition,” he said. “AB will be raring to go when he comes back.”  stuart.hess@inl.co.za  @shockerhess  IOL