Durban - After the season of spending, the month of JanuWorry has welcomed us to reality.However, it s the simpler things in life that bring about true happiness (or so the saying goes). The Independent on Saturday asked six young Durbanites what brought light to their days. Hopeful about what this new year will bring is Noorain Manjoo, 22, from Umhlanga: I am optimistic for a few reasons - I graduate from college, which brings with it a bunch of new opportunities, exciting adventures and unfamiliar faces. As a South African, I am optimistic about making progress in prejudice and racism alleviation and just being the beautifully dynamic and harmonious nation we have the potential to be. It is said that diamonds are a girl s best friend but for Thashnee Moodley, 22, from Phoenix, it is her puppy, Zach. He s a 1-year-old, extremely naughty, but incredibly adorable German shepherd. He is always my sunshine on a cloudy day, be it with his cries to be next to me, our nose kisses and hugs, or the wagging of his tail when he sees me. Whenever I m down, I can always count on him to cheer me up. His bubbly personality, huge ears and gorgeous eyes can win over anyone s heart, said Moodley.Yulisha Chanlall, 25, from Ryalvale, Phoenix, believes there is no therapy better than retail therapy. Somehow or the other shopping usually makes me feel much better. It takes me away from my demanding life and diverts my attention to finding the best bargains. However, shopping is most enjoyable when I have my best friend or partner with me. The downside is the budget. Read also: How to survive Janu-worryPhumla Ngcobo, 24, of Morningside, said: I m happy to be in a country where I don t experience civil wars and violence. We re lucky to be in a country where freedom of speech is respected, with no political instability. Yes, we have problems, but they re not extreme to an extent where people get bombed or assassinated. Phindile Shozi, 22, uMlazi, said: Being able to get an education is taken too lightly in South Africa and it s something we need to feel grateful for. For Shozi, her freedom is also something to be grateful for. We live in a free country where everyone has their human rights. Being surrounded by nature is where Saijal Ramnarayan, 20, of Westville, finds her happiness. This year I m going to be a true tourist in the city I study in, Cape Town. Planning to chase sunsets, Ramnarayam said: Nature itself is so calming and good for the soul, so I m going to watch more sunsets. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY