The host of Zaziwa and Metro FM radio presenter, Pearl Modiadie, had people drooling when she posted pictures of her latest vacation to Bali. Posing in a series of sexy shots, some with Bali locals, Modiadie showcased her beautiful vacation. She showed off some of Bali’s hot spots including Gili Trawangan Island and Ayana Resort. Her outfits were casual and playful, something that goes well with a beachy location like Bali. Here are her top 5 looks. Look 1: Gili Trawangan Island, Lambok   Pearl Modiadie is known for her wise fashion decisions, and this black bikini showcases her in all her beauty. She wore a black bikini top that she paired with a polka dot bikini bottom. She completes the look with a black string choker. The Gili Islands are a group of 3 tiny islands comprising of Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno and Gili Air in Indonesia, near the coast of northwest Lombok Island. At Gili Trawangan, the largest island, where Modiadie was on a vacation, a sunken ship sits at Wreck Point near Mentigi Beach. The location is popular for its sandy beaches, palm trees and coral reefs. Look 2: Tanah Lot, Bali   Modiadie keeps it simple with this paisley print maxi dress that she pairs well with a sling purse. The pink ensemble hides Modiadie’s toned figure and showcases her demure side. Tanah Lot, behind Pearl, is a rock formation off the Indonesian island of Bali. It is home to the pilgrimage temple Pura Tanah Lot, a popular tourist and cultural icon for photography. Look 3: Rock Bar, Ayana Resort   In this look, Modiadie turns heads with a floral playsuit as she enjoys the views of Bali from Rock Bar. The venue is on top distinctive rock formations along Jimbaran’s pristine sunset coast. It is known as one of the most popular sunset, cocktail and entertainment venues. Not only is it a place for the young crowd to let loose, it is a perfect place to watch the sunset. Look 4: Tanjung Benoa   One of the best looks of Modiadie's vacation is her in a pink bikini with tassels. Modiadie looks classy as she poses in front of the ocean with her fingers in a peace sign. Tanjung Benoa, like many other beach side destinations in Bali, used to be a fishing village and an old dock. It is now home to hotels, resorts and water sports operators. It is located 15 kilometres from the international airport. Look 5: Bali Hai Cruise, Benoa Harbour   Modiadie wears this chic peach mini dress as she enjoys the scenic views of the ocean while on cruise at Benoa Harbour. She pairs her dress with a strappy flat sandals. This type of outfit is perfect for cruises and can easily be swapped for a bikini look in seconds. Bali Hai Cruises is Indonesia’s leading cruises that have exciting day cruises to Lembongan Island with fun-filled activities for the whole family.