Beijing - China vowed on
Tuesday to contain high company debt levels and further cut excess coal and
steel capacity, as Beijing attempts to maintain solid and more balanced
economic growth while avoiding destabilising asset bubbles. The world's second-largest
economy likely grew around 6.7 percent last year - roughly in the middle of the
government's target range - but it faces increasing uncertainties in 2017, the
head of the country's state planning agency told a news briefing. Global investors are buzzing
over whether China's
leaders will be willing to accept more modest growth this year, amid worries
about the risks from years of debt-fuelled stimulus driven by the political
obsession with meeting official targets. China's credit growth has
been "very fast" by global standards, and without a comprehensive
strategy to tackle the debt overhang there is a growing risk it will have a
banking crisis or sharply slower growth or both, the International Monetary
Fund said in October. "Although the domestic
economy is stable and improving, it still faces contradictions and
problems," said Xu Shaoshi, the top official at the National Development
and Reform Commission (NDRC). "We have the
confidence, conditions and ability to ensure the economy operates within a
reasonable range." Xu said China will not
allow debt of non-financial firms to rise beyond current levels, and will step
up efforts to encourage companies to restructure their debts. China's
corporate debt has soared to 169 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Read also: Trump's trade council is led by China critic China's leaders are likely
to accept growth this year of around 6.5 percent, policy insiders say. That would give the
government more room in theory to focus on tackling the nation's debt pile, and
on tamping down speculation that was seen last year in the housing, commodities
and debt markets. Driving spike After a rough start to 2016,
China's economy performed better than many economists had expected as higher
government infrastructure spending, a housing rally and record lending by state
banks fuelled a construction boom. Producer prices, in
particular, saw a stunning turnaround, emerging in September from nearly five
years of deflation. That helped put the long ailing manufacturing sector on
steadier footing, boosting profits and giving factories more cash flow to
whittle down a mountain of debt. Data on Tuesday showed
producer prices continued to rise as 2016 drew to a close, with producer
inflation surging 5.5 percent in December year-on-year, the fastest in more
than five years, as the prices of coal and building materials soared. Cuts in industrial capacity,
along with a rebound in demand, have helped fuel the spike in prices. Read also: China goes on $26trn commodity binge But some analysts worry the
strong gains may also be fuelled by growing speculation in commodities futures
markets, adding to the broader risk of bubbles in China's economy even as
leaders attempt to control explosive debt growth. "I don't think there's
an inflation issue in China, it's an asset bubble," said Commerzbank
senior emerging market economist Zhou Hao in Singapore. While the NDRC's Xu said on
Tuesday that China will put more pressure on coal and steel firms to reduce
overcapacity this year, analysts at ANZ predict higher prices and fatter
profits may thwart those efforts. "Producers are tempted
to fire their engines again in the face of rising prices. The government will
not fully welcome the rapid recovery of the PPI," said ANZ economists
David Qu and Raymond Yeung in a note. Higher rates? For the first time in nearly
five years, economists at HSBC have raised their forecast for global growth and
inflation, encouraging by robust manufacturing activity, a resilient China and
above all the fiscal boost expected to come in the United States under incoming
President Donald Trump. Hopes of stronger spending
under Trump are sparking expectations of stronger US economic growth and
inflation which more interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve. A sharp jump in borrowing
costs would heighten the risk of loan defaults, though China's sustained
producer price jump has not yet started filtering into consumer prices,
suggesting its central bank will not be under pressure to tighten monetary
policy as soon, analysts say. Commerzbank's Zhou said that
a bubble in commodities, led by coal and steel prices, could complicate policy
decisions if economic growth slows and some easing of monetary conditions is
needed. But policy insiders already
expect a tilt towards more conservative monetary policy this year as top
leaders struggle to strike a balance between supporting the economy with ample
credit and preventing a destabilising build-up in debt. The NDRC's Xu said on Tuesday
China will further push forward its debt-to-equity swap programme this year as
it looks to cut the debt burden on companies. The PBOC reaffirmed it would
keep liquidity in the financial system stable while taking steps to prevent
asset bubbles and financial risks in its annual work meeting for 2017. REUTERS 