Veuve Clicquot Masters Polo Cape Town celebrates the sport of kings combined with the finest champagne. Socialites and the crème de la crème of African influencers will descend on South Africa’s most prestigious polo estate – Val de Vie Estate – on Saturday 4 March 2017 to witness international polo players compete for the coveted Veuve Clicquot Masters Polo Cup. READ: Rihanna was "numb for a while" With this year’s #ClicquotJourney theme, guests can expect to taste food inspired by some of the iconic cities that the popular Yellow label champagne brand travels to – such as Los Angeles, Tokyo, Paris, London, New York and Cape Town to name a few – all this enjoyed with Veuve Clicquot champagne of course.  Val de Vie estate will also be transformed in line with the theme, to ensure guests experience a journey (of the senses) around the world with Veuve Clicquot, without leaving the picturesque Paarl/Franschhoek valley. Since its founding in 1772, Veuve Clicquot has exported its champagne, first throughout Europe, then to the US, to finally extend into Latin America, Africa, Asia and the Pacific, at a time when travelling was an adventure and shipping champagne around the world was a challenge. It was a necessity for Madame Clicquot (the grand Dame of Champagne) to grow her business, but it was also an occasion for sharing, the chance to build bridges and make new discoveries. The event continues to attract the attention of international VIPs, African stars and local celebrities such as Nigerian film and TV stars like Vimbai Mutinhiri, local entertainment celebrities like Lee-Ann van der Walt, Jeannie D, Bonnie Mbuli, Maps Maponyane and Nomzamo Mbatha, along with captains of industry and ministers such as Fikile Mbalule and Marthinus van Schalkwyk. More than 2000 people are expected to attend the 2017 event to see premier polo players including Nicky van der Walt, HRH Prince Malik-Ado Ibrahim of Nigeria and Springbok colours player Le Roux Hendricks play on the day.   For the 2017 event, there are also a few exciting international celebrity appearances planned, which will be announced in due course. And of course the event’s Official Broadcast Partner, E! Entertainment Africa will be there to capture all the glitz and the glam on the red carpet. Join the journey, and witness “Cape Town meets the World” in March 2017. #ClicquotJourney Event Information: Venue: Val de Vie Estate, Paarl Date: 04 March 2017 Time: 14:00 till 19:00 Tickets: R980 – R4 000, available at Computicket. Website: http://vcmasterspolo.co.za/