Kwaggafontein A number of matric pupils at the Mpumalanga school where Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane matriculated, said on Thursday, that they were worried about a lack of resources and infrastructural development at their school. Matric pupils from Mkhephuli Secondary School in Kwaggafontein Village, where Mkhwebane completed her matric in 1986, said that the lack of resources and infrastructural development made it difficult for students to pass Grade 12. Several pupils told the African News Agency (ANA) that the school was not equipped and had no adequate resources like the internet. They compared it with other schools such as the KwaMhlanga High School, which is about 30km away in the same Thembisile Local Municipality. When the ANA visited Mkhephuli Secondary School on Thursday morning, most of the pupils interviewed said they were not even aware that Mkhwebane was a product of their school. They appealed to the Mpumalanga Basic Education department to provide their school with more resources and refurbish its buildings and premises. Our school has produced a public figure but it is not taken care of like other schools in this area, said pupil Zodwa Mabena. This school is historically important but our yard is not even paved like that of KwaMhlanga High School, she added. Another pupil, Prince Moosa, said he was grateful for having passed grade 12 but lamented a lack of resources at Mkhephuli Secondary School. Matric was tough and we did not have resources. I could not do research about my subjects on the internet in this school. I managed to pass with a Diploma and I am happy because this is better than nothing. Mkhephuli Secondary School s principal, who only identified himself as Mr DJ Nkambule, confirmed that Mkhwebane matriculated at the same school in 1986, but declined to comment on the grievances raised by his pupils. Nkambule would also not reveal the 2016 matric pass rate of his school. We were told by the department not to divulge anything to the media about this school, he said. The situation was different at KwaMhlanga High School later on Thursday morning, where four grade 12 pupils said they passed with Bachelor passes. Most of the pupils found at this school appeared to be happy and shared jokes while collecting their statements of results. Temoso Tjege said she passed with a Bachelor and would study journalism at a college in Rosebank this year. Matric was difficult but I worked very hard. My parents will finance my studies. I really like journalism and want to become a television reporter, she said. Spokesman for Mpumalanga Basic Education, Jasper Zwane, advised the pupils of Mkhephuli Secondary School to present their grievances to the School s Governing Body (SGB) through their Student Representative Council (SRC). The SRC must look into the issue and discuss it with the SGB. The SRC must also advise the school s management and make necessary proposals, said Zwane. African News Agency