Washington - If 2017 is the year you leave a job where
you are miserable, whatever you do, suck it up and plan for a graceful exit.  Rule Numero Uno: Stay off social media. Too many people give into their negative feelings on the
way to their next job and commit career suicide by trashing their former
employer, said Cornelia Shipley, a speaker and an executive coach with more
than 20 years’ experience training clients on how for formulate personal and
professional goals. "They either get really excited about the new
opportunity and say, 'I'm out'a here.' Or they are so angry and hurt, that they
operate out of that hurt and do things that are destructive to them," said
Shipley. "They try to win the hearts and minds of general public through
Facebook 'likes' or 'retweets' instead of focusing on what they truly
want." Even if you can't stand the boss, taking the high road is
critical to managing a career for the long game. That could mean decades. The world has changed from the days where you got a job
for life, stayed in the same house and waited for retirement. Gig economy
workers hop from one job to another constantly. You may hold many jobs by the
time you retire, so be sure you leave good feelings in your wake. "If you would like to have a good life and land
well, take revenge out of the equation," advises Shipley, who worked for
several years at Fortune 500 companies. The story your employer will tell about you is key. They
don't have to love you, but you don't want them badmouthing you either. That's
the kiss of death. "People are moving every day in the new
economy," said Shipley, author of "Design Your Life." "If
you burn a bridge with your old employer, that bridge may wind up at your dream
job and they will not hire you." Read also: Striking a balance between life and career So if you hate your job and are leaving, read this before
you do something rash: - How to tell your boss: Every organisation is different,
but generally it is best to inform your boss in person and well in advance.
Make sure you thank your supervisor. - Craft a clear story: You are going to have to tell
those you are working with at some point. Work with your employer to decide
when, what and how your colleagues will be notified you are leaving. Make sure
you authentically express your appreciation for working with colleagues and
leave things on a high note wherever possible. - Say thank you: Just because you are leaving the company
does not mean you are leaving your relationships behind. Make sure you thank your
mentors and sponsors and craft a plan to stay in touch. You never know when or
how your paths may cross in the future. - Have a transition plan: Make sure you don't leave your
team or employer in the lurch. Make yourself available in the event it takes
time to find your replacement and be willing to train someone to bridge the gap
until a back fill can be found. - Work until your last day: Minimise the amount of
disruption your departure may create and focus on delivering quality work until
your last day. WASHINGTON POST