London - Diageo is getting back into Irish whiskey, taking on Pernod Ricard s Jameson and Red Breast labels by investing $25 million in a Dublin distillery that will produce a premium-priced new brand called Roe &amp; Co.The maker of Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie Walker scotch will begin selling the first cases of Roe &amp; Co next month in major European cities,&nbsp;Colin O Brien,&nbsp;director of UK and Ireland operations, said Tuesday on a call with reporters. Priced at about 30 pounds ($37) a bottle, the brand will join the company s high-end Reserve division, Diageo said. We were always interested in Irish whiskey, said Tanya Clarke, general manager of the Reserve unit in Europe, confirming a Bloomberg report. What we decided to do was innovate in the premium segment, which accounts for only 6 percent of the category. Diageo, the world s largest distiller, exited the Irish whiskey category two years ago when it traded the Bushmills brand to Jose Cuervo for Don Julio&nbsp;tequila. Since then, Irish whiskey sales have continued to surge, leaving Diageo out of a thriving market.The London-based company will build the new facility at Diageo s Guinness stout headquarters in Dublin, O Brien said. It will begin production in 2019, subject to planning approval.&nbsp;Until then, Roe &amp; Co will be blended from whiskeys of undisclosed existing distilleries.Read also: Diageo ready to go it alone in SA While Irish whiskey is booming, growth has been driven by Jameson, which makes up about 60 percent of the category s sales, said Trevor Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. Smaller brands like Grant s Tullamore Dew have also been doing well, but Roe &amp; Co will enter an increasingly crowded market.&nbsp; It makes sense for Diageo to re-enter the category, although what you now have is a fairly high number of players jostling for space, Stirling said by phone.Roe &amp; Co is a blend of fruity malt whiskeys and smooth grain whiskeys from different parts of Ireland, aged in bourbon casks, Diageo said.Irish whiskey is the fastest-growing spirit category in the US, according to industry tracker IWSR. It accounts for a total of about 4 percent of the spirits market, but that could grow to 12 percent by 2030, according to the Irish Whiskey Association. Brown-Forman, which owns Jack Daniels whiskey and Woodford Reserve bourbon, acquired Slane Castle in Ireland s County Meath for $50 million in 2015 to distil new whiskeys. Bloomberg