The danger is not that we are sliding into some choreographed path but that the ANC has itself abandoned its historic mission, writes Thami ka Plaatjie. &quot;It is not meet, Sir King, to leave thee thus, aidless, alone and smitten through the helm. A little thing may harm a wounded man. The poem Morte d Arthur by Alfred Lord Tennyson addresses the defining moment in the life of the king who is wounded in battle and is abandoned by his trusted soldiers. Only the trusted Bedervere stands guard until the last moment.The poem Morte d Arthur by Alfred Lord Tennyson addresses the defining moment in the life of the king who is wounded in battle and is abandoned by his trusted soldiers. Only the trusted Bedervere stands guard until the last moment.If we extend the metaphor, all kings will come under siege and so will their kingdoms but the soldiers must stand guard in defence. What is at stake is the salvation of the kingdom and that is the price that must be fought for. The public protector s report cast serious aspersions on many people and invites the president to occasion a commission to pursue these allegations. The opening lines are instructive and position her office and many others as entrusted with the keeping of the constitutional promise to our people. That promise was made by the ANC through the Freedom Charter and it must count itself as that first and last defence line.Oliver Tambo faced the mutiny of soldiers called mkatashiyo and through the Morogoro conference provided a rejoinder that salvaged the movement. We knew that the regime would seek ways to recover its power and its pre-ordained position of influence and that we needed to stand vigilant guard. We have abandoned the post in a hurry to administer an untransformed state and benefit from its alms.The conference argued that in our country more than in any other part of the oppressed world it is inconceivable for freedom without the return of the wealth of the land to the people as a whole. It is therefore a fundamental feature of our strategy that victory must embrace more than formal political democracy .The obsession with defending formal political democracy at the expense of the return of the looted land and resources of the people is one such a tragedy to which we are offering no response. In fact, we are hellbent to make oppression effective and efficient with all the checks and balances that, in the long run, make the transfer of power to our people moot.Effective governance must be pivoted on the backdrop of a revolutionary party that will ensure that the masses will see real freedom and a betterment of their lot, otherwise side-shows and sensational personal scandals will take the centre stage and become the new national agenda.People like Chris Hani were arrested and jailed in that mutiny but a thorough and brutally candid process of atonement and revitalisation healed the rift and refocused the movement on its historic mission. Such an inner party candid dialogue process must be occasioned not only to meet and respond to the ever clamouring noises of the opposition but to give our people hope and faith in their movement.The defining moment was how Tambo reacted to the challenges that faced him with the view to recover from and salvage the organisation. That defining moment he faced with equanimity, courage and fortitude, well aware, that the future rested on the thorough application of reason and fact and not on a knee-jerk reaction to headlines and sentimentality.That our land is still in the hands of whites is not in dispute and the clamouring noises are deafening. The stakes are high and the more than 100 years of struggle is at risk where the gains of the struggle might be reversed. It is not the absence of challenges that matters but the absence of a recovery plan that is unnerving.The temptation to chase shadows is great, but the eye must not miss the real target. The failure to craft a recovery plan in the wake of the recent local government s poor performance is one such an indictment on the part of the ANC.The liberation war was fought on all fronts and the weakening of the intellectual base of the ANC is one shortcoming that we will regret. The Chinese famous Book of Han, authored by Ban Gau and Ban Zhao in 111AD invented a saying that soon became the national bedrock and rallying cry of the Communist Party to this very date, that is seek knowledge through facts . This adage addresses itself to the continuous quest for self-introspection, continuous study and continuous evaluation based on objective facts and not illusionary pretensions. This stance has helped to revitalise the Chinese Communist Party and allow it to jettison some of its mistaken thoughts, idealism and antiquated notions. This has been the strength of the ANC in its entire history, the ability to reinvent itself, to remain responsive to the quest of the masses of our country and this has been on the basis of continuous evaluation of facts and prescribing solutions.The liquidation of the fighting capacity of the working class through the emasculation of Cosatu is one worrying fact that we (the ANC) will be punished for.The open public spat by members of the alliance is counter- revolutionary as it is self-seeking. We once argued that the unity of our people is sacrosanct. It is when the centre fails to hold that we will invite frequent visitations by the self-styled leaders of our people like the DA who will emerge and profess to uphold the ideals of Nelson Mandela.&nbsp;The vibrant public vigilance must be commended but it must be led and directed by the ANC. The ANC must not stand on the margins or join common with its detractors when they are the ones that must defend the interests of the revolution. It is the vibrant inner party discourse that must guide broader society. Unless we submit to the notion that we have decimated the internal vibrant discourse such that the only salvation for the people can be found in the ranks of the loquacious oppositions.If this is the case, then the noble struggle of the people shall have been subverted and wilfully auctioned to those whose fundamental interest is to retain and sustain the status quo of white domination. The overthrow of white domination will be lost under the guise of administrative and personality fights. The wailing of the opposition is predictable as they are deleterious and are intended to protect white interests.At best we run the risk of being side-tracked from addressing the plight of the people and we have ourselves to blame. South Africa has been experiencing disturbing headlines that have catapulted it into a state of national frenzy. As an activist nation we rise, at a slightest provocation, when we sense the erosion of some hard-won struggles and cry foul and hurl epithets.The danger is not that we are sliding into some choreographed path but that the ANC has itself abandoned its historic mission to lead society in spite of itself. The loss of that high moral ground is fatal as it is painful.* Ka Plaatjie is head of ANC research and adviser to Minister Lindiwe Sisulu.** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.The Sunday Independent