ondon - BT Group reported a sharp drop in third-quarter profit, as an accounting scandal in Italy forced a writedown, muting gains in the company s consumer and mobile businesses.Profit fell 53 percent to 374 million pounds ($469 million), BT said Friday in a statement. That included a 245 million-pound provision to lower the value of the Italian business. This week, the former UK telecommunications monopoly disclosed years of irregularities in Italy, and also lowered its profit outlook as UK government clients and international corporate clients cut back on spending. Underlying revenue fell 1.5 percent.The results cap a week of turbulence for BT and follow the biggest blow to the reputation of Chief Executive Officer Gavin Patterson since he took the helm in 2013. Patterson has focused on transforming a company long dependent on bulky government contracts into a consistent consumer-focused brand, with the acquisition of EE and investments in sports TV content. He is also facing a ballooning pension deficit, regulatory battle and political pressure to invest more in fibre. The situation in Italy is very serious but we mustn t lose sight of the fact that BT remains in good health overall, Patterson said on a call with journalists. We re a profitable company with some very strong businesses and we re generating strong cash flow. False invoicesPatterson said the problems in Italy were under control and limited to a small number of people, and the company is working with authorities. The company suspended its two top executives at the unit in September, and they have since left the company. Bloomberg News reported Thursday that Andrea Giovanni Bono, the head of BT s businesses in Switzerland, the Nordics, central and eastern Europe and Russia, will take over the Italy role on Feb. 1. It was a very sophisticated manipulation of the profitability of the business, Patterson said on the call. False invoices, off-balance sheet loans, these types of things, and it turned out to be bigger than we thought. The managers in Italy effectively lied to auditors, Patterson said. It can be very challenging to find out unless you ve got forensic accountants and that s what we ve done in the last quarter, we ve really got underneath this issue, we ve scaled it, we ve sized it and now we ve acted. Read also: BT faces criminal probeIn the quarter that ended on December 31, BT reported a 32 percent increase in revenue to 6.13 billion pounds, aided by the acquisition of EE a year ago. Patterson had guided toward a mixed bag of financial results Tuesday, pointing to solid performance in the consumer business, mobile unit EE and network division Openreach. On Friday, he highlighted growth in those businesses and improvements in customer service.Mobile growthEE recorded revenue growth helped by strong demand for the company s mobile services, BT said. The company said it added 276 000 new mobile customers paying monthly. The company also had record demand for fibre broadband at Openreach with 498 000 homes signing up for faster speeds, it said.Among BT s public-sector and major-business customers, revenue fell 15 percent. A number of large government contracts are ending, the company said, and some contracts are winding down more quickly than it expected, and the current market is not providing the opportunity to replace these with profitable new business. BT shares fell 0.4 percent to 300.95 pence at 8:18 a.m. Friday in London. The stock is down 18 percent this year.Moody s on Thursday underscored the company s challenges,&nbsp;signalling a possible cut to the rating by lowering its outlook on BT s Baa1-rated debt to negative.BT on Tuesday cited inappropriate behaviour and improper accounting practices going back several years in Italy, meaning a business it had said was profitable had long been losing money. It disclosed a 530 million-pound writedown over the accounting irregularities, more than triple a figure given in October when the company first discussed the investigation. The stock slid 21 percent on Tuesday.Nick Rose, the chairman of the BT board s audit committee, has flagged internal-control issues in Italy in every annual report since May 2013. It s fair to say the audit committee have looked at Italy a number of times in the last few years, but the audit committee were misled in the same way that the management was misled, Patterson said on the call.It s too early to say whether BT will start a replacement process for PricewaterhouseCoopers, its accountant for decades, any earlier than the 2019 requirement, Patterson said. Bloomberg