A hypnotherapist who has helped a range of A-list celebrities quit smoking believes he can help others kick the habit too. Max Kirsten, based in Chelsea, was behind Adele and Ewan McGregor's successful attempts at giving up.  But through an app using a range of different techniques, he encourages smokers to stop by changing the way they think. He claims, Quit Smoking Now will prevent those trying to quit from having any unwanted withdrawal symptoms. READ:Seven Tips for a Healthy Lifestyle in 2017 Containing four sessions of hypnotherapy, it has since been voted the number one stop smoking New Year's resolution app.  It also comes with a Stop Smoking Calculator designed to help you keep track of your progress. And Max's 60-Second Cravings Buster technique, which prevents you from succumbing to those nicotine cravings. Hollywood actor Ewan McGregor, a heavy smoker for years said Max made stopping seem 'effortless'. He hasn't touched a cigarette since 2009. While British singer Adele gave up her 20-a-day habit in 2015 following a visit to his clinic. STEP 1: Prepare to quit. 1. Make smoking less enjoyable by switching brands for a week before your designated stop date. 2. To improve your overall health and get a better night's sleep, keep focused on the benefits of not smoking. 3. Write down all of your reasons for wanting to kick your bad habit and have it easily accessible to keep you motivated. 4. Sip water before each of your puffs on the day before you quit smoking for good. 5. Spend time Googling the dangers of smoking, teaching yourself exactly how cigarettes could be damaging your body. 6. Collect all of your smoked cigarettes into a water-filled bottle and notice how horrible they begin to look after just a few days. 7. Figure out exactly how much money you could save over the course of a year if you stop buying packets of cigarettes. 8. Choose the date you are going to save your health and stick to it. 9. Throw away any e-cigarettes and nicotine gums, this will help you commit to the quitting cause. 10. Get your family and friends to support you, let them know exactly what date you plan to stop smoking on. READ: Ladies, hope of cure for PMS STEP 2: Become a non-smoker. 1. Think of yourself as a non-smoker from the moment you have your last cigarette – it will help you reset your mindset. 2. Make sure to eat a balanced diet, cut back of caffeine and walk more often to help reduce the effects of your withdrawal. 3. The worst cravings only last for a matter of minutes, fight off the temporary urges. 4. By relaxing you take your mind off of the thought of smoking, deep breathing is essential. 5. Flush the nicotine and toxins out of your body by drinking plenty of water. 6. Forget your habit of holding a cigarette. Instead replace it with a pen to help take your mind off of smoking. Quit Smoking Now with Max Kirsten can be downloaded on the ITunes App store for £2.99/R49.63.