Cape Town – The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has dismissed an application by the African National Congress for leave to appeal in the case where the party sought to challenge the City of Cape Town adopting a new logo, Mayor Patricia de Lille said on Tuesday. In a statement, de Lille said their legal team was informed of the court's decision on Friday. "The SCA decided not to hear the matter because there was no reasonable prospect of success in an appeal. They could also find no convincing reason as to why the ANC’s appeal should even be heard," she said. "The leave to appeal was dismissed with costs, which we hope to receive from Luthuli House soon." The matter began in early 2014 after the City of Cape Town launched its new logo and pay-off line which the ANC argued had gone ahead without necessary public participation. The party stated that the design – by agencies Yellowwood and King James – had reportedly cost more than R300 000 and implementation exceeded R8 million. The City, however, argued that the public had indeed been consulted as the logo and pay-off line changes formed part of its Integrated Development Plan (IDP), which – according to the City – had been subjected to public consultation. Western Cape High Court Judge Rosheni Allie, in her ruling last year said the ANC in the province did not "have the locus standi to bring the application". The ANC then applied for leave to appeal in the same court, but this was dismissed, prompting them to approach the SCA. De Lille said the City felt vindicated by the decision of the SCA to dismiss the application with costs. "We can only hope that the ANC will now stop the pettiness of pursuing this matter," she said. "We plan to focus our attention on building on the progress that this administration has made in the last five years. Our energy is placed firmly on this project and on issues of governance. We sincerely hope that the ANC will stop wasting the time of the courts." ANC caucus leader in the City, Xolani Sotashe, was not immediately available to comment. African News Agency