Johannesburg Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has appointed is son as his senior presidential adviser for special operations. Muhoozi Museveni, 42, will give up his post as commander of the Ugandan army's special operations forces to fulfill his new role, which will reportedly include leading presidential security and critical military installations around the country, the Stratfor think-tank reported on Tuesday. It has been assumed for years that the elder Museveni, in office since 1986, is grooming his son for succession, possibly in 2021 when elections will be held, said Stratfor. Through his father, Muhoozi has gained significant experience in Uganda's military, arguably the country's most important institution. His new role as a senior presidential adviser will provide him the experience in politics and government that will prove critical in the years ahead as President Museveni begins the process of ceding power. As Uganda takes a small step toward political transition, its energy sector is also progressing, the think tank explained. Gulf Interstate Engineering Company announced on January 9 that it would undertake the engineering design study for the Uganda-Tanzania oil pipeline project, which will stretch an estimated 1 445km and will cost an estimated $4 billion a hefty price tag due to Uganda's waxy crude oil, said Stratfor. According to reports, Uganda, Tanzania and oil companies Total SA, Tullow Oil PLC, and China National Offshore Oil Corp. will fund the eight-month study. Meanwhile, it was announced on January 9 that Total SA has agreed to buy part of Tullow Oil PLC's 33.33 percent stake in all of the Lake Albert development licenses, EA1, EA1A, EA2 and EA3A. Total SA is already the operator of licenses EA1 and EA1A and will take over operations of license EA2. The purchase will reportedly enable Total SA to increase its production and boost its reserves by 2020, which will be crucial if the company is accurate in its prediction that low energy prices will eventually create a production shortage, said Stratfor. Regardless, the pipeline project is several years away from fruition, and it will likely not begin producing oil for export until sometime in the 2020s. By then, Uganda could be going through its much-awaited presidential transition. The timing would give Museveni's chosen successor, likely his son, the funds needed to secure the support of allies and to foment political patronage. African News Agency