Johannesburg Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Paul Mashatile would on Tuesday hold an urgent meeting with officials at the West Rand's Mogale City Municipality after the axing of two ANC officials, Speaker Patrick Naga Lipudi and chief whip Sipho Dube. This came after Democratic Alliance (DA) mayor Michael Holenstein called a council meeting on Friday where a motion of no confidence was passed on Lipudi and Dube. They were replaced by Enerst Modise and Jacque Hoon, both DA officials. The provincial Cogta department said the actions of the council, led by a DA/EFF coalition, were not consistent with council rules. &quot;Given these unfortunate developments that threaten to cripple the municipality's ability to render services, MEC Mashatile will intervene with a view to deal with a number of anomalies that could potentially collapse the functioning of the council of Mogale City,&quot; the department said in a statement. &quot;The Gauteng Department of Cogta views the latest developments as not being consistent with council rules as adopted by the same council and relevant municipal legislation. In intervening the MEC will engage all parties and relevant officials to help resolve the matter amicably.&quot; Last week, the ANC in the West Rand branded the meeting as illegal and that it would plunge the municipality into further chaos &quot;through their blatant disregard for the laws that govern local government.&quot; &quot;The mayor returned from Europe yesterday [last week Wednesday] and sought a meeting to consider a vote of no confidence in other members of the political management, a total disregard of standing rules and orders of council which require a 14 day notice period before such can be considered,&quot; the ANC said in a statement. &quot;Despite having been presented with the rules of council, Holenstein has illegally decided to convene council meeting himself, instead of the Speaker doing so as the only person legally mandated to do such.&quot; Holenstein was elected mayor in December last year, following the resignation of DA's Lynn Pannall due to ill health. Holenstein beat Lipudi and received 39 votes against 38 for Lidipu. Pannall had also beaten ANC's Peace Mabe by a single vote to take over as mayor after last year's local government elections. African News Agency