Port Elizabeth Two men allegedly part of a notorious Port Elizabeth gang are applying for bail in the city s magistrates court following a so-called revenge mission which left at least two people dead and another kidnapped. Damian Kammies, Kurt Bosman and Deilon Makoppa reportedly affiliated with the Spotbouers gang, are facing charges of murder, assault to cause grievous bodily harm, kidnapping and unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Kammies has since abandoned his bid for bail. He still has two pending cases of attempted murder against him. During court proceedings on Tuesday, the State indicated that the men were on a mission too seek out Neville Bruintjies. Bruintjies apparently disarmed two fellow Spotbouers gang members of a firearm. During November last year, Bruintjies was allegedly sought out by the men, and in the process a man was killed and his body discovered in the Malabar vlak area. During this time Bruintjies s mother s house was also reportedly burnt down. The three accused then made their way to Schauderville looking for Bruintjies, on their quest for information of Bruintjies whereabouts they allegedly assaulted and kidnapped Franklin Matthys. The State alleges that in the interim Matthy s cousin, Deon, was shot and killed in cold blood by the accused. It emerged in court that Matthys had since supplied an affidavit stating that he wished to withdraw the assault charge against the accused as the matter was mediated between families . Makoppa took to the witness box on Tuesday and denied being involved in the murder. His version to the court is that police members from the police's Gang Unit did not follow up on his alibi. He claimed that video footage would show that at the time that the shots were fired he was in a different location in the area. The State brought an application forward with the intention to make use of cellphone messages derived from a previous case where Makoppa was acquitted on charges of murder and attempted murder. The court is expected to make a ruling on the admissibility of the evidence on January 9. African News Agency&nbsp;