Cape Town - She may be an orphan living in known gang territory plagued by social ills, but Charne Ruiters, 13, has defied the odds by becoming the fifth pupil from a Hanover Park school to be accepted at the prestigious Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls in the south of Joburg.Raised by her fisherman grandfather after she and her three siblings lost both their parents at a young age, Charne has been one of Belmor Primary School s brightest pupils since Grade 1, and was awarded the Excellence in Mathematics certificate every year.The certificates adorn the walls of the cramped Cascade Court apartment she shares with her grandfather, Isaac Brady, her older brother and two sisters.In 10 days time, Charne will fly to Joburg where she will begin what her grandfather has called her opportunity of a lifetime . I m excited, but I m also a little bit scared, Charne said shyly. In fact, I think my family, friends and people around here are more excited than I am. It has been a tough time for the youngster who lost her mother after a long illness in 2010 and then her father in a car crash. My grandfather has taken good care of us, even with all the gang violence around here, she said on Wednesday. There have been many shooting incidents. It has quietened down recently, but we still feel unsafe every now and then because we fear the shootings could begin again at any time. Charne, who lists maths, Afrikaans and English as her favourite subjects, said one of her teachers, Miss Williams, had applied on her behalf to the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy. After writing an assessment test, she was informed that she had been accepted.She said her grandfather is proud of her. He told me that it s my opportunity and I should grab it with both hands, and that I should always do my best to improve my life. Belmor Primary Principal Carol Poole described Charne as hard-working , saying: She always strives to do her very best despite all the odds against her. All of us have been instrumental in the necessary arrangements and we are always trying to provide quality education for all. She hails from difficult circumstances. We wish her our very best and hope and pray that she will be successful at the school, which sadly only a few learners can experience. Poole added: Our school was also fortunate in 2008 when four of our learners had the privilege and opportune moment to officially open the doors (of the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls) as part of the first intake!&quot;Cape Argus