 As a passionate and now suffering Springbok fan, I implore  you to order the removal of the Springbok badge from the current crop of players' and coaches' blazers and jerseys. This is not to make you a more popular minister in the eyes of your superiors, but because the current group of individuals simply do not deserve to wear an emblem which represents courage, commitment, well-placed confidence and, most importantly, patriotic honour. Incidentally, I must point out that patriotic motivation on the sports field can happen only when players truly feel secure and confident that they are part of a team which really is made up of the best of the best. My suggestion is that only winning teams and stand-out individuals be awarded the privilege to wear this symbol. The same way that only the countries who have actually won a World Cup can wear the Web Ellis badge on their jerseys. I feel for those who have that proud leaping Springbok embroidered on various “earned” blazers and jerseys, proudly displayed. People like Mannetjies Roux, Francois Pienaar, Joost van der Westhuizen, Danie Gerber, Percy Montgomery, Uli Schmidt and Frik du Preez, to name a few. The class of 2015/ 2016, I’m afraid, do not deserve to wear that logo. And legendary coaches like Kitch Christie, Nick Mallett, Jake White and Peter de Villiers (Yes, Peter, he did beat the British Lions), do not deserve to have their legitimacy cheapened by those who are clearly not of that standard. These players are there now for quick cash, social media fame and bragging rights (although they don’t have much to brag about). They know that as things stand, they will never win a World Cup, they know that the man next to them in the heart of the battle is not actually the best in the country, they know the coaches are limited in their experience and expertise and, last but not least, they know that by 2019 there is an above average chance that they will not be in the team as a result of politics and quota selections. In short, that is not the culture or legacy of how Springboks are made. Politics and poor coaching are playing a significant role in our rugby’s demiseand I do not see an end to that any time soon. So it makes perfect sense to stop the awarding of the Bok to any player or coach until such time as they are in a team that either wins a World Cup, achieves a grand slam over the Home Unions or secures victory over the British and Irish Lions. That, dear minister, is the mark of a Springbok. That is why you need to withhold that emblem from being further disgraced. Kyle Condon The Star