Port Elizabeth An alleged gangster, who allegedly shot a man twice in the head and once in the spinal cord, applied for bail in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday. By a miracle, Raven Lucas, survived the shooting incident, however, he is now paralysed from the waist down but can still speak at a gradual pace. Aldine Jacobs is facing charges of attempted murder and unlawful possession of firearm and ammunition. He has several previous convictions which include theft, assault, possession of drugs and domestic violence, to warrant his release on bail he claimed that he would not interfere with witnesses and denied being a gang member. According to the State during November last year, Lucas was on his way to a drug post in the city's northern areas when he came across Jacobs and his co-accused Cortney Matroos. Matroos has since abandoned his bid for bail. According to the investigating officer's affidavit before court, Lucas was asked to join the gang group 'Preston Shaw Boys' and agreed to do so based on peer pressure. Matroos and Jacobs then accompanied Lucas home when he noticed that they started to slow down and were walking behind him. &quot;[Lucas] heard a gunshot and felt some heat behind his head. He heard [Jacobs] saying to [Matroos] give the gun to me,&quot; the affidavit read. According to Lucas the motive for the shooting stems from the day before, when that his younger brother opened a case of robbery with aggravating circumstances against Matroos who allegedly stole a cellphone and some money. Police later recovered a .22 revolver from the room in which Jacobs shared with friends. State Prosecutor Rafik Ahmed opposed bail on the basis that witnesses were being threatened and eliminated. &quot;Safety of the community needs to be taken into consideration as shootings happen where community members reside and statistics show that innocent people are being caught in between these gang shootings.&quot; Ahmed indicated that Jacobs was a flight risk and may evade his trial. &quot;These charges carry a maximum sentence and the state has a strong case against him,&quot; said Ahmed. The matter was postponed until January 20, for closing arguments. African News Agency