Pretoria The city's Vat Alles general workers protested across the CBD over delayed payments on Thursday, but the metro said that was because they had not signed their contracts.The close to 4 000 SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) members took to the streets in the city centre to protest, also demanding that they be employed permanently.Samwu regional chairperson Lesang Montsho said workers were upset because they were not paid two days ago as expected. The only explanation we were given was that an executive director who was to have ensured that workers were paid did not do her job, hence the non-payment, he said.But mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi said the real reason the workers were not paid was because they had failed to sign their contracts. It was not regular that workers continued to draw salaries from the city despite not having signed their contracts, he said. The strike is the result is non-payment of some Vat Alles workers who refused to accept the extension of their contracts for a further six months. They demand permanent placement instead, Mgobozi said. This is at odds with the concerns and objections already raised in the auditor-general s report before the council, he said. Uncontracted workers could not be paid.Montsho said the workers had dispersed after assurances by city officials that they would be paid.This being a temporary solution, Montsho hoped the employer would live up to its promises. We've made a draft agreement on the matter. Though the employer is failing to come back to us with the last report, we'll wait till the end of February to see how we move forward. Montsho said they were confident that all 8 000 members would be permanently employed as the city had 10 000 vacancies.Mgobozi said he was unable to comment on payments to be made as he had no such knowledge.It was not feasible for all workers to be employed. Contractors are hired for projects or a specific period of time. All contract workers are made aware of this. The city has negotiated with Vat Alles employees in good faith. This is the umpteenth disruptive, unlawful protest.&quot;Pretoria News