Prague - A fertility clinic used by hundreds of British couples is under investigation after it implanted two women with each other s embryos.The mix-up happened at the Czech clinic Reprofit where one in ten patients treated each year are from Britain.It is understood to have happened after a worker confused two patients who had similar names.The mistake is likely to alarm the many thousands of British women who travel overseas to become fertility tourists .In recent years couples seeking IVF treatment have been drawn by cheaper prices in countries such as the Czech Republic.The clinic, in Brno, which is being investigated by the State Institute for Drug Control, has suspended two employees.Institute spokesperson Lucie Prinesdomova said it was the first known case of its kind in the Czech Republic and admitted it was probably caused by human error.Matej Stejskal, the vice chairperson of the clinic s holding company FutureLife said: It was a human error, not a system failure. The people who manipulated the embryos have been suspended. According to the clinic, both couples involved in the incident come from EU countries outside the Czech Republic.Local media reported that one couple are Austrian and the confusion may have arisen because the two women had similar names.Mr Stejskal said he would not comment on the details of the case while the investigation is proceeding, although he said both women were in good health.The clinic is regularly visited by foreign clients and co-operates with several clinics in the UK. In 2015 the Reprofit clinic had 304 clients from the UK out of 3,086 women treated each year.The clinic itself informed The State Institute for Drug Control about the error after discovering it during routine quality checks. According to Czech law, the mother of the baby is the woman who gives birth to the child. The woman is considered to be the biological and legal mother, regardless of genetic maternity.Lawyer Tomas Pelikan said: The genetic mother has no right to take a child from a mother who gave birth to the child and is its legal mother. Any sanctions the clinic will face will become clear after the State Institute for Drug Control completes its investigation.The attraction of the Czech Republic is that English is widely spoken and the cost of IVF treatment can be as much as 70 per cent cheaper than at private clinics in the UK.One cycle of IVF in the country costs about &pound;2,100 and an egg transfer is about &pound;3,500. In 2002, a mix-up with embryos occurred in the UK at St George s Hospital, Tooting involving three different women, each of whom had the wrong embryo implanted in them. The problem was spotted by the doctor and embryologist, and an emergency procedure was conducted to remove the embryos. In the UK, also in 2002, a white couple gave birth to two black twins after a mix-up by Leeds General Infirmary. This involved sperm from a black donor, which had been meant for a different woman, accidentally being used to fertilise an egg from a white mother. The couple, known only as Mr and Mrs A, kept the children who had been loved from the moment of their birth by their parents. In Cardiff, at the University Hospital of Wales in 2009, a couple from Bridgend won damages after their last embryo was wrongly implanted into another patient who later terminated the pregnancy with a morning after pill. Daily Mail