Buhle Mbonambi Awards season is possibly one of the most stressful times in entertainment. There’s full-blown campaigning by studios, directors and actors, hundreds of events to attend and even more suits and dresses to pick out by the stars. Every year there are awards season front-runners, those who know they will be a heavy part of the awards chatter and could be nominated for an Oscar. A major part of their campaigning is making sure they look good all the time. That’s why the awards season red carpet has become as important as the role the actor played in the film. These are the stars we expect to impress on the red carpet this awards season: Ruth Negga (Loving) The first time I saw the Ethiopian-born Negga was at the photo call for Loving at the Cannes Film Festival last year. She wore a gold metallic pleated dress by Suno. It was an interesting choice of garment, one that caught my attention. Later that evening she did a 180, wearing a black lace garment by Marc Jacobs. She has the range and a clear interest in fashion, and is having fun with it. At the Golden Globes on Sunday she showed how much of a major player she is going to be, wearing a silver sequinned column dress custom-made by Louis Vuitton’s creative director, Nicolas Ghesquiere, that set her apart from the other actresses. Ryan Gosling (La La Land) Gosling is a style god. This is a fact. Google “Ryan Gosling+ style” to see my point. And since he’s the favourite to win the Best Actor Oscar, he is dressing the part. He has never been afraid of texture or colour. In 2011 he wore a velvet tuxedo at the Golden Globes. This year he wore a cream tuxedo blazer with a maroon boutonnière. He is always well turned out and this year I expect him to continue, but also will find a wayand I expect he will stay on top of the Best Dressed lists. Mahershala Ali (Moonlight) Hollywood’s new favourite actor is having a moment, one I wish lasts forever. He’s a great actor, is good-looking and has the physique to be a style killer. At the W magazine party last Saturday, he wore a Dior Homme black suit with flame-like embroidery. The collar of his white shirt had a strip of red glitter. At the National Board of Review party, he wore all black, the main attraction being the patterned black shirt he wore. The only criticism I have is that his clothes fit him too snugly. At least there was none of that at the Golden Globes. Oh, and his shoe game is the best. No contest. Naomie Harris (Moonlight) She’s obviously on my list of the most stylish modern actresses. She rarely has an off day, style wise. I’m expecting her to kill it even more this awards season and finally put her name on the official list of Hollywood’s most stylish. Harris can never say no to a column dress, which shows off her physique perfectly. But she also looks amazing in gowns, jumpsuits and is a fan of bright colours, prints and showing leg – after all, she also wants to show off her shoe collection. I’m expecting her to pull out all the stops this season. Emma Stone (La La Land) Obviously Emma is on this list as the favourite to win Best Actress at the Oscars. She’s a favourite of many designers, has one of the most in-demand stylists, but most importantly, also has an eye for fashion. She has been having fun showcasing her style – which can go from demure, stylishly outré and, of course, show-stopping. She’s a fan of print, colour and a bit of bling. She’s probably going to wear a custom-made gown for the Oscars and be the best-dressed. Isabelle Huppert (Elle) She’s the oldest star on this list, French, talented and definitely one to watch. Huppert has always been a fashion person. A fixture on the Paris front rows of Chanel, Armani, Louis Vuitton, Dior and Stella McCartney, she has fashion know-how and contacts that the people she shares this list with desirer. Her Golden Globes Armani gown won many over – but her green shirt and full skirt combo at the Cannes Film Festival last year put her on my radar. Ladies and gentlemen, may the Fashion Games begin, and may the fashion odds ever be in your favour.