Calm was restored at Kakamas High School on Wednesday after disgruntled parents had earlier this week threatened to burn down the school should the principal not be appointed. This follows an urgent court order obtained by another parent, Nicolaas Johnson, which prohibits the Northern Cape Department of Education from appointing the principal. Parents, who support the newly appointed principal, gathered in front the school on Monday and Tuesday this week, demanding that he be instated. They threatened to burn down the school should he not be instated. The principal was previously dismissed after impregnating a pupil while he was a teacher at the school. Northern Cape High Court Judge Bulelwa Pakati ordered that the principal should not occupy office pending the finalisation of the matter on March 23 this year. The order also stated that the Northern Cape Department of Education should not assign the principal to any function or responsibilities of principal. It further prohibited the principal from physically entering the premises of the school. Johnson, who has two children at the school, stated that he had brought the court order against the appointment as the principal was appointed unlawfully. He said that the school governing body (SGB), of which he is a member, had prior to the appointment of the principal already selected a candidate to fill the position. “The position was advertised in 2015 and interviews were conducted. There was an agreement on who would be receiving the position. The person was even notified that his application was successful. That, however, changed and the appointment never occurred. “The SGB later held a meeting with the district office regarding the appointment. We wrote a letter stating that we did not want the post to be re-advertised and that the chosen candidate should be appointed. The district, however, re-advertised the post and appointed their candidate principal. “As parents, we felt that we could not sit back and let that happen. We carry the education of our children in our hearts and could not allow such a decision to be taken on behalf of parents,” said Johnson. Departmental spokesman, Geoffrey van der Merwe, had earlier this week assured parents that all protocols had been observed when the principal was appointed. “The department is in possession of all the documents that confirm the recommendation by the SGB of Kakamas High School to appoint this candidate as principal,” Van der Merwe said in a statement. He said on Wednesday that they would respect the decision of the court. “We will abide by the court order while the case is still in progress.” Police spokesman, Captain Olebogeng Tawana, said that no arrests were effected during the protests. The deputy principal currently holds the position of acting principal at the school. Diamond Fields Advertiser