Pretoria Desperate calls have been made for mayoral intervention in the escalating crime rate along the Klapperkop Nature Reserve precinct.Stakeholders on Wednesday took to social media to ask executive mayor Solly Msimanga to save the livelihoods and lives of cyclists, tourists, joggers, motorists and residents in the area.They are under siege from criminals who are running amok in the prestigious precinct. It s time for our new mayor to show us why we voted for the DA, Michael Somers posted on the Facebook page of Friends of Groenkloof Nature Reserve.Victims and others affected by the rising incidents of muggings, smash and grabs, housebreaking, bag and cellphone snatching also shared their opinions. Where is the mayor in all of this? It s time to intervene sir, tweeted Michelle Rom.Mduduzi Ndlovu also tweeted: You were giving the ANC and Kgosientso Ramokgopa grief about the lack of safety of the nature reserves, but what is Solly (Msimanga) doing now? Their requests for the mayor to step in and ensure their safety follow reports, published in the Pretoria News, of people saying they were under siege from petty criminals. The thugs were found to be living along the boundaries of the reserve, from where they lay in wait among thick bushes and pounced on unsuspecting people, threatening them with a variety of weapons.The criminals were ruthless, security officials said, adding that they stopped at nothing to get what they wanted. They not only hid from view and waited for their moment to attack, they also dressed up as joggers and cyclists before striking. The situation has reached crisis point, said Robert Tryhou, who works for the reserve. He said the criminals went beyond the reserve and its surrounds and into Groenkloof homes. There they damaged cars, broke into homes and stole anything they could lay their hands on.A raid of the precinct last week produced a variety of stolen goods, including household appliances, family portraits and academic certificates.The raid also uncovered dangerous weapons hidden in shacks that leaned against the borders of Klapperkop.Among them were scissors and knives in different sizes, pangas, syringes and guns.Crime in the area dated back a few years, and last year Msimanga and former DA leader Helen Zille visited Groenkloof Nature Reserve. They did a 3-km hike to raise awareness of the dangers and show support for the victims. They were accompanied by security and party supporters. The city has to be safe, and if we lose that safety aspect then we do not have a progressive city, Msimanga had said.DA councillor for the area Shaun Wilkinson said the demands of the people were being seriously considered. I am totally committed to the safety and security of all the citizens, residents and tourists who want to enjoy the Tshwane gateway in the Fountains Valley, Groenkloof Nature Reserve and all the green spaces, public spaces, roads and suburbs. The city was in talks with the Tshwane Metro Police Department to have daily, weekly and monthly patrols, he said. Wilkinson added that he had permission for a joint task force for visible policing. Wilkinson had also escalated the matter to the Department of Nature Conservation, which in turn allocated human resources for patrol fencing. I have also met and discussed with the mayor the Klapperkop precinct problem and a detailed and more comprehensive plan has been drawn up. He said the plan was still covert and would not be discussed for fear of alerting the criminals of its details .Wilkinson said he had also met CSIR officials to discuss the use of technology to curb the crime around the Klapperkop precinct. A public meeting would be held at NG Kerk in Groenkloof next Thursday, in which the public would be informed about the proposed plans, he said. Previously, the ANC-led city made its own promises which I can t be held accountable for. We (DA) have a different approach, said Wilkinson.Pretoria News