Pretoria The Gauteng government has stepped in to help with the burial of Meisie Molefe who was killed and burned before being buried in her backyard, allegedly by her boyfriend. James Thabo Dube, 38, allegedly confessed to police that he burnt his wife's body and buried her remains in the back and of his home at Stinkwater Trust Farm after killing her on October 6, 2016. Dube reported Molefe missing on October 26. The 36-year-old woman was allegedly hit with a sharp object before being doused with paraffin and set alight. Gauteng social development MEC Nandi Mayathula-Khoza visited the family to offer her condolences on Friday. Obed Molefe, 59, a family member of the murdered woman, said the family did not have the means to bury her. He said they did not know what to do with her young children aged 12, eight, and two. Meisie and her two brothers, one whom is disabled, are orphaned and she looked after them and her own children. She was a pillar of this family. Now that police have promised to give us the DNA results on Monday we have no idea what we are going to do because we must now start planning the funeral, Molefe said. On Sunday, Mayathula-Khoza offered to assist the family, including ensuring that the children were taken care of. We came here as government to offer our condolences but were met by this news. We cannot look or walk away. This is so sad; I don t even know what to call this. We are so saddened and we would like to help so her soul can rest in peace. The entire family is traumatised, as such; we have assigned a social worker to the family. We will provide them with trauma and psychosocial counselling. Our social workers will assess the plight of the children and advise on steps to be taken. &quot;We will also support the family with the burial. We are happy that the community in the area is keen to join hands with government. It is only when we care together that we will make a difference, Mayathula-Khoza said. Dube will appear in the Temba Magistrate's Court in Hammanskraal on Monday, charged with murdering Molefe. African News Agency