Durban A security guard who was shot in the face after breaking up a fight in Sydenham managed to drive himself to a nearby hospital despite having blurred vision and bleeding profusely. Speaking from his hospital bed on Monday, Durand Arran a patrol-man for Combined Community Watch (CCW), a private security company, said he was lucky to be alive.The bullet went through his cheek and doctors told him, had it been a few centimetres higher, it would have hit him in the head and been fatal.Arran said he had been conducting a routine patrol through Sydenham early on Sunday when he noticed a man being assaulted. It was just after midnight and I was alone at the time. I drove down Keal Road and saw three men assaulting another man. The victim was on the ground. I swerved to try and scare off the attackers and told the victim to run, Arran said.The culprits fled and the victim managed to escape. I turned to go down Kearey Road to check up on the victim and as I turned, I drove past a car parked at the side of the road. There was one guy running past and the person sitting in the car fired three shots. Arran sustained a gunshot wound to the face and the other two bullets hit the car.He blanked out for a few minutes but when he came to, he managed to drive to Nu Shifa Hospital, a few kilometres away. I could not see properly. My vision was very blurred. The bullet had entered through Arran s left cheek and exited behind his ear. Arran s wife, Lee-Ann, said when her husband arrived at the hospital, he left the VW Polo patrol car in the parking area and stumbled into the hospital. There was a security guard who saw Durand getting out of the car and making his way into the hospital, she said. Durand had left the car keys in the ignition and the guard went to the car to remove the keys and lock the car. He saw that the car had CCW branding and contacted Domenic King, who is the director and also my uncle. My uncle then called me, said Lee-Ann.When she arrived at the hospital and saw her husband lying on the bed, she started praying for his recovery.A hollow-point bullet was used and, due to its make-up, the bullet shatters on impact so there were still fragments in Arran s cheek. Doctors managed to remove the bullet on Sunday. He underwent surgery to remove the remaining fragments on Monday afternoon and is in a stable condition. King said he was relieved Arran managed to come out of the incident alive. If you see the car and where the bullets hit, it is clear that they were trying to kill him, said King.A case of attempted murder is under investigation. No arrests have been made.Daily News