When it
comes to hot drinks, most of us know that green tea is a healthier alternative
to breakfast tea with two sugars, or a cup of coffee. But there
are other health benefits you gain from drinking this fragrant brew. From weight
loss to ridding you of wrinkles, these are the seven benefits you could see if
you drink green tea regularly. READ:#MeatFreeMonday: Three bean salad recipe
Drinking green tea could help you achieve your weight loss goals, it's the
polyphenol in green tea which is said to help you slim, as they are reported to
help speed up your metabolism, allowing your body to burn off more energy from
the food you eat. De-stress tool Drinking
green tea can help to you to relax and rid you of any anxieties, it's said. The
theanines in green tea can reduce the symptoms of anxiety, some studies have
suggested. Cancer
fighter Green tea
is packed full of antioxidants, and some early studies suggest that it could
even help prevent people from getting cancer, though there's not enough
evidence yet for this to be conclusive. People with
cancer often opt to drink green tea because they believe it might boost their
immune system, improve their health, and get rid of toxins in the body,
according to Cancer Research. Reduces cholesterol Drinking
several cups of green tea a day is said to significantly reduce levels of
'unhealthy' cholesterol. A review of
11 studies involving 821 people found daily consumption of green and black tea as a drink or a capsule could help lower cholesterol and blood pressure
thanks to tea and its catechins, according to the NHS. These
trials were only short-term but it points to cholesterol-reducing benefits. Healthy
teeth and gums Drinking
green tea could even help boost your oral hygiene as it has plenty of
anti-inflammatory benefits which could prevent gum disease. A study
that examined the dental health of 940 men found that those who regularly drank
green tea had better oral health than those who didn't. READ:Biltong: South Africa’s best weight-loss snack Helps
digestion Drinking
lots of green tea could help digestion due to its high levels of antioxidants,
it's thought. And a study
by the Cincinnati College of Medicine found that drinking green tea could help
with the symptoms of colitis and Crohn's Disease. Anti-aging It's the
antioxidants again in green tea that could help rid you of wrinkles, it's
thought. Antioxidants
help to stop free radicals from breaking down collagen in our skin, which is
the protein that keeps us looking young. 