Kimberley - The family of a deceased Kimberley police officer, who died after apparently committing suicide by jumping off a bridge into the Orange River in Upington following an alleged love triangle, said that they are still trying to put together the details that led to the incident.It is believed that Constable Itumeleng Mompati, 37, who was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit in Kimberley, killed himself after he found out that his fianc&eacute;e was allegedly involved with another man.Mompati apparently assaulted the woman, who is the mother of his son, after he caught her with her alleged lover.The woman was apparently stabbed in the face and neck and had to be transported to a hospital in Kimberley. She was later transferred to a hospital in Bloemfontein.After the assault, Mompati apparently jumped into the river as he believed that the woman might have died.His brother, Bogoshi Mompati, said that family members were still in shock and are awaiting further details from the police. Currently we do not have any concrete details on what transpired. Our brother has passed away and we are currently focussing on the burial, Bogoshi said yesterday.He said that he never knew his brother to be a violent person. Itumeleng was a very hard working, loving and caring person. Even his colleagues said that he was quiet, said Bogoshi.He added that his brother s job required him to travel between Kimberley and Upington. We knew that he travelled often to Upington for work. He did not tell us that he was going there on the day (of the incident), but we also knew that he was travelling there often. It was not out of the ordinary for him to go to Upington. Upon enquiring about the condition of his brother s fianc&eacute;e, Bogoshi indicated that the police investigation would reveal more and that the family was not certain whether the fianc&eacute;e had been discharged from hospital.He said that the couple had been dating for several years. They were seeing each other for about five years. She (the fianc&eacute;e) works and stays in Upington. We know her well and they also share a son. Currently we are not certain what state she is in or if she had been discharged from hospital, as we have left everything in the hands of the police. Bogoshi said that the thought never entered his mind that his brother has died when he received a phone call from the police chaplain indicating that he must come home. I was picking my child up from school when I got a call from the police chaplain telling me to come home. At that moment I did not even think anything might be wrong with Itumeleng. I just came home and the chaplain called the closest family members to meet at home. We were very shocked after he broke the news to us. Police spokesman, Colonel Mohale Ramatseba, confirmed the incident. The police in Upington have open an inquest case following the death a constable. The constable is believed to have drowned and his body was retrieved from the Orange River on January 22. Prior to his death, the deceased apparently had a fight with his girlfriend, whom he assaulted. The circumstances surrounding the drowning are yet to be established and the police investigation continues, Ramatseba said.Mompati s funeral will be held on Saturday.Diamond Fields Advertiser