Johannesburg - The SA Communist Party (SACP) has called on Communications Minister Faith Muthambi to desist from using the ANC Youth League in Limpopo to oust Premier Stan Mathabatha. Muthambi is using the ANCYL to oust comrade Stan (Mathabatha). The SACP has detected her ambition of becoming the premier because she has been promised the position, said SACP provincial spokesperson Machike Thobejane on Saturday.Thobejane also sliced into Muthambi, saying she wasn't equal to the task of becoming the Limpopo premier as she had failed to hold the former SABC board and its controversial former COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng to account. We must take each other seriously. How can she become the premier of Limpopo following all the shenanigans that are happening in the Communications Department? She couldn't discipline Hlaudi and the SABC board. She can't manage a single department, then she wants to run the province. &quot;It can't be correct. The SACP will never allow that to happen. She is not welcomed in Limpopo to be the premier, Thobejane added.The SACP is holding its provincial executive committee meeting this week, when it will address factionalism in the province. Thobejane said it was well documented that Mathabatha was being attacked because he is seen as a supporter of Cyril Ramaphosa. He added that there was no concrete reason why Mathabatha should be recalled. We are going to defend Mathabatha. He is part of the SACP central committee and the provincial executive committee, and the ANC national executive committee and provincial executive committee. He is a disciplined comrade. Therefore all these efforts to remove him are politically motivated and malicious, Thobejane said. The SACP also slammed the ANCYL which through its provincial spokesperson, Matome Moremi, criticised Mathabatha's performance as premier.Thobejane said: The ANCYL knows very well that they aren't profound. Their utterances are a result of factionalism. You cannot allow a situation where Mathabatha is going to be replaced. We will engage this matter robustly during our PEC meeting this week. Spokesperson for the Limpopo premier, Kenny Mathivha, said: The premier will like to make it clear that he doesn't support anybody to succeed President Jacob Zuma. He also says it is only the branches of the ANC that will decide on their preferred leaders. He also respects the ANC position that it hasn't opened the issues of succession.&quot;Thobejane also confirmed it was true that some ANC PEC members had claimed that Muthambi had been touted as the next Limpopo premier.Muthambi refused to comment.ANCYL spokesperson Moremi dismissed allegations levelled against the league.The Sunday Independent