Cape Town - Beachgoers have complained that people mainly from the Cape Flats had been blocked from accessing a public toilet and tidal pool near the Brass Bell restaurant on New Year's Day. The Kalk Bay harbour master also came under fire for locking the gate to the toilet and pool, and said people from outside the area would bring alcohol onto the beach. In a Facebook post, Mary-Ann Naidoo said the gate had to be reopened by law enforcement. This has been happening for several years and the City has been made aware of it each time, but turned a blind eye. The restaurant's view is that these people scare their patrons . A letter from the City s professional officer for Beach Amenities Co-ordination for the Sport, Recreation and Amenities Department Helen Jordaan, expressed support for harbour master Shafiek Ebrahiem s pedestrian limit. Please note, the City of Cape Town is in support of the harbour master limiting pedestrian thoroughfare between Kalk Bay Harbour beach and the Brass Bell on January 1, 2, 2017. This intervention is in order to effectively manage visitor safety and numbers. The Kalk Bay tidal pools will remain open to the public during this time and access may be achieved via the subway, the letter reads. The Cape Times was referred to Mayco member for community services Anda Ntsodo for queries on the letter, but Ntsodo did not respond by deadline. Kalk Bay harbour master Ebrahiem said: History has shown there (are) fights there(at the beach). These crowds come from outside of the area, from Bonteheuwel, Manenberg, they come from different areas. They come with the intention to braai and have alcohol. He said the gate was now open as sufficient staff were present for access control . Yesterday (on Monday) we had to control access from about 6am because people came with alcohol. That time there was a lot of people and we had only one point to control. He said the gate had been locked for about three hours before it was reopened not because of complaints by the public, but the opening time had been decided by him earlier. I was there and we reopened the gate. There were no complaints of the gate being closed. He also confirmed he consulted the City prior to making the decision to close the gate. Brass Bell manager Gary Galvin said the restaurant had no control over the gate. We are again being accused of unfounded things. The gate was locked and it wasn t our lock. He said from 5.30am until about 10am the harbour master had locked the gate. Galvin said staff had been threatened and called racist by the public after the incident emerged on social media. City mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith confirmed law enforcement opened the gate to make sure the public had access. As soon as we were notified, law enforcement opened the gate, Smith said, adding the gate was not controlled by the City. Smith could not comment on whether this was the first time law enforcement had to open the gate and said he was not aware of Jordaan s letter. Cape Times