Cape Town The Department of Social Development has apparently closed down a cr&egrave;che after reports of alleged child abuse.But the closure has not been welcomed by employees at Little Jewels Educare, a registered Early Childhood Development centre in Manenberg, who now blame the mothers of two little girls for losing their jobs .On Monday morning, the teachers as well as the owner, Felicia Goff, picketed outside the homes of the two mothers, blaming them for the shutdown of the facility, which has been operating for 25 years.The protesting teachers shouted that the pair were responsible for them now being without jobs, and for kids in the area not having a cr&egrave;che to go to. Jy beter nie uitkom nie, ons gaan jou moer, one angry woman shouted outside the one parent's home. (&quot;You better not come out. We are going to hurt you.&quot;)Last week, the young mother told Daily Voice how her one-year-old daughter came home bloodied and bruised from the cr&egrave;che on her second day there.The one-year-old girl allegedly abused at Jewels Educare. Picture: Daily Voice Doctors confirmed the bruising on her arms were caused by blunt force, while 30 crescent-shaped marks on the toddler s thighs were possibly caused by human nails.The 23-year-old mother says she laid a charge of assault with police, after Goff refused to tell her how her daughter had been injured.The Department of Social Development said it would investigate the matter.Meanwhile, another mother has also come forward with claims of abuse against the cr&egrave;che.She has pictures of her four-year-old daughter s injuries after the child was allegedly choked at the cr&egrave;che last November.Although the case was not publicised, teachers also protested outside their home on Monday. Girl, 4, had marks on her neck. Picture: Daily Voice The mother said she went to lay a charge, but was told she wouldn t win the case. I was told by the prosecutor that there is not enough evidence as any child under the age of five cannot tell a story, she said. My child told me exactly who did it, but I am working with the South African Human Rights Commission now. They say I do have a case and will handle this for me.&quot;The mom says she got a fright when the group of protesters showed up at her house screaming, swearing and threatening her. They stayed there for three hours, just screaming at me. I did not even tell my story yet, but it s fine. They cannot do anything worse than they already have by hurting my child. The Department of Social Development could not immediately confirm the reason behind the shutdown of the cr&egrave;che, and if it was permanent.Goff did not respond to queries either. Daily Voice