This is the experience that Maserati, in partnership with Tsogo Sun, gave motoring enthusiasts last week at the Gerotrek testing facilities in Pretoria. The event was to launch the #DreamChaser promotion that is set to reward three lucky winners with a luxury supercar at one of Gauteng’s Gold Reef City, Montecasino and Silverstar Casino. We were welcomed by the CEOs of Gold Reef City and Maserati. Guests got to test drive the cars and feel what the three lucky winners would experience. In a conference, rules were read out and driving partners were chosen, followed by a spin around the race track. The organisers warned all those attending to dress as comfortably as possible to get the most out of the experience. Celebrity couple Matthew and Sonia Booth were invited. Sonia wore an army green jump suit and comfortable shoes while her hubby just looked cool in a grey T-shirt and jeans. He still got it. Sonia joked that they were “hoping to get a Maserati as part of the goodie bag”. After her experience, she was extremely thrilled. “Oh my gosh, it was exciting,” she said. “I was a passenger at first and rode with someone who was spinning the car and by the time I got to drive, I was shaking and nervous. But, overall, it was amazing.” Thando Thabete was also there, rocking a matching army green ripped tracksuit, black cap and black sneakers. She was the leading lady of the day, handling the wheels pretty well and dared the guys: “Let me show you how this is done.” By the end, she emerged the winner. “It was so exciting. I have never done anything like this before,” she quipped. “I love cars, I love driving. Growing up, I was always into driving those toy cars so this was absolutely amazing.” Lunga Tshabalala, in a black T-shirt and jeans, came across absolutely humble. He looked like he also had the time of his life. Other celebs who graced the event were the Goliath trio, Nicholas, Jason and Donavan Goliath, DJ Sabby, presenter Zola and MTV’s Sandile Ntshingila. After all the excitement, spirits were high as we were shuttled back for lunch and to mingle. As we headed home, rain showers came down, marking a fitting end to a fun day out in Pretoria. Mother Nature has really good timing. The Sunday Independent 