Cape Town A Delft family has been left shattered after a dad of one was killed when a concrete slab was thrown at his car.The heartbroken parents of Tashwill Joubert, 28, say they will miss their eldest son and now have to help raise the 11-month-old daughter he leaves behind. In the early hours of Friday morning, Tashwill and his girlfriend were driving along 35th Avenue in Elsies River, on their way to fetch people at the Elsies River Day Hospital, when a concrete slab struck his car.The young father lost control of his white Honda Ballade, and crashed into a pole.Speaking from their Delft home on Monday, dad Elroy Joubert, 51, said his son s girlfriend was unharmed and called the family from her cellphone.Elroy said: I got to the scene before police. Tashwill was coming over the bridge from Clarke Estate when his car was hit with a concrete slab on the side, and he crashed into a lamp pole. The incident occurred in 35th Avenue, Elsies River. Picture: Bertram Malgas/ Daily Voice His girlfriend ran for safety and that s when she called us. I arrived at the scene and I was shocked, he was gone already, he died on impact when the slab hit him. The front of the car was smashed, the steering rack was broken and the windscreen was shattered. Tashwill s mother was too traumatised to speak to the media. The dad of two said he had a close bond with his eldest son. He also has a 20-year old son. We were extremely close; Friday we still spoke as we did about everything, Elroy said. We will miss him tremendously. He was always so obedient, a real example to other children. I could ask him anything and he wouldn t think twice of doing it. He always helped out where he could and never moaned. People always spoke about how respectable he was; greeting everyone no matter the state they may be in. Tashwill was very family-orientated. He leaves a big gap in our home. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Andr&eacute; Traut, said no arrests have been made yet. The circumstances surrounding a culpable homicide case is being investigated after a 28-year-old man was struck with a brick while driving his motor vehicle in Clark Estate on Friday morning at around 2am. He lost control and died after colliding with a lamp pole, Traut said. Daily Voice