Transformation is a key factor in driving South Africa to become a far better place than it is now. It is a very powerful and useful weapon, but if it is wrongly handled it will defeat the whole purpose of what it is intended to achieve. Presently it needs to shrug off its biggest challenges of perceived corruption and lack of understanding and knowledge of its purpose. It must be backed by transparency, the right people in the right positions, buy-in from other races and de-politicisation.Furthermore, my biggest fear is that people are using transformation as a short cut to control means to wealth as well as demand favours. If you look at our aviation industry, so far transformation is not taking place or if it s happening at all it is unnoticeable. The aviation sector in South Africa must see new blood in the form of young engineers being trained and drafted in and taking meaningful managerial roles. This process must be done in a transparent manner, as it can be prone to advancing those who are politically connected. It is my appeal to champions of industries, specifically aviation, to be transparent with a view to grow the airline industry and the travel industry at large and the greater economy in general. As it is, many young people will soon give up on the promise of transformation, as they fear and in some cases clearly see the process benefiting undeserving companies and individuals where transformation is taking shape.I strongly believe in transformation, as its benefits are there for everyone of the right or fair mind to see and admire if well implemented. Through a transformed South Africa the country s strategic industries can begin to see young talented or educated people being part of driving the economy to much greater heights. We will begin to see deserving companies benefiting rather than those that are favoured owing to their ownership through politics or colour or race. The fact that we need transformation must not mean taking someone who is not qualified and put him/her to take charge of the country s resources or to lead strategic institutions or industries. Transformation requires the right mind and to be understood as a way to bring in a balance to access economic resources. It is not a one day process, but it has to take place speedily in order to address the current imbalances in some sectors of the economy. As it is, considering the seeming resistance it may take years to achieve, despite it being a must in a country like ours. At the moment I see transformation being perceived as a negative means to take away resources from those that were or are privileged. Those who are resisting it should understand that the process of transformation is not taking away resources from those that had opportunity before and merely placing them before those who need them haphazardly, but a process of good intentions aimed at spreading resources among those who lack but have talent.South Africa requires its transformation process to be supported by all stakeholders and minds for it to be fully attained.No place for politicsThough the drive to transform is being led by politicians, there must be no place for politics in transformation. Politicians should be seen as merely taking the lead in a process that is delicate and sometimes too sensitive for others to partake in.Transformation should be viewed as a process of leading with good intentions in various spheres of business. Transformation calls for a total decolonisation of the minds so as to see it progress fully to benefit all. It must be well thought out, intended and executed.Transformation must not be paying lip service, but should be activities that lead to tangible results that will bring in every person to enjoy the fruits of the nation. It is not a fight for resources, but should be seen as a right to those who lack economic means.Perhaps more importantly, the process of transformation requires thorough buy-in by those that believe that it must not take place or that it is politics or putting resources into wrong hands or before an incompetent race or races.As I see it transformation has all the ingredients to usher peace and tranquility in a country like ours, which sometimes boils over in some sectors.Transformation must not be seen as negative but positive for economic and wide spread nation building and growth. It must take place in all spheres of the economy - sports, education, industry, technology and others. It must not be implemented as window dressing, but as a genuine process that seeks to balance the present going into the future. The process of transformation requires the realisation that the majority had not had the privilege of resources before or resources where skewed towards a particular race against another, and that this is now time or perhaps it is overdue to reverse its negative effects however in a transparent manner.There must be utmost transparency in all processes of transformation. There must be no hidden agendas, as it will lead the process into disrepute. Transformation is the ladder to sharing equally all the resources that are available in a country of ours.Wherever there is transformation debate it must not be merely a talk shop, but action orientated. It must not be viewed as retrogressive or undoing the gains of certain industries where it is apparent it is lacking like in sports, aviation and other sectors.Long-term prosperityIf properly planned and executed transformation can be a pillar on which the entire South African economy can rest for its long-term prosperity. Transformation is about genuine economic development for all people of all races, as opposed to taking over industries where some races were the only partakers before. It must not be viewed as corruption or bad leadership.The process requires that it be led by people who have genuine interest of the nation at heart. It is about a new thinking that places races as equal in economic development. It must not be clouded or mired in grey areas or politics or race culture.It must not be seen as a lose cannon, but a well directed concept aimed at achieving its well intended goals of economic balance across all industries. Transformation should not be a battleground to show political power, but should be about good or proper leadership. It is about talented individuals rather than mass progression of those that are not talented, or promotion of the best qualified for true economic prosperity. There must be no room for settling grudges on the road to achieve total transformation. Neither should the process be allowed to be a haven for political gamesmanship or scoring political points. Transformation must not be about disadvantaging another race, but co-opting more races into enjoying the fruits of economic participation and success.For transformation to fully be realised it must be embraced by all - rather than be pushed by a single race or people in politics. In the end transformation must be about the right information on who enjoys what or lack what for what reasons current or emanating from the past. In a nutshell it must be reflected in the demographic and statistics of the country. But above all it must be about equal participation to economic gain for all through transparency.Javed Malik is the former Skywise co-chair.