I have been associated with the ANC for many years, in fact, since my student days at the University of the North (Turfloop). I joined the ANC in 1980 in Lesotho and over the years, I have experienced the ups and downs of belonging to a political organisation. There are times when your view, which you think is  the correct position to take, is not supported by the majority. Then you have to subject yourself to what, in your view, is a wrong decision. Then you go home and calm down. Why? Simple: you chose to belong to an organisation, it is your choice. When I was learning about politics in my youth, we used to study what the Leninists used to call “democratic centralism”, which is kind of “dictatorship” by the senior organs of the organisation or party. Sounds draconian but even the church does that! In recent times, I have been a member of the ANC NEC, the highest decision-making body in-between national conferences. It is a powerful committee within the organisation and South African society because the ANC is the governing party. It has been both a pleasure and torture to be a member of the NEC. The pleasure being greater than the torture! There have been many times when I felt like throwing in the towel when I thought my “comrades” were totally crazy to take this or the other decision. But I have not run away from my responsibilities. I was elected by the ANC national conference in Mangaung in December 2012, and I have a duty to those members who elected me, come hell or high water, to continue advancing what is correct against the many wrongs engulfing our organisation. I rejoice at the good that we do. Over the recent past, the ANC has faced many big problems. Scandals associated with the president, the worst being the firing of a good minister of finance, Nhlanhla Nene (a good man), his association with the Gupta predators and the Nkandla construction costs. Then there was the killings at Marikana, the loss of major metros and the public spats with ANC veterans and the This or That must Fall movement. It has been difficult. What I enjoy most about the ANC is that these issues are discussed openly in the NEC meetings. It is a pity that we are not really communicating well what the debates and discussions were in the NEC. We debate issues there and at times, it becomes so tense that one fears that fists may fly any time. That is good. Contrary to “public” perceptions, the NEC is not Comrade JZ’s dictatorship. Far from it. He knows that when he comes into the NEC meetings, he is only the first among equals. He is not an induna there, there are no aristocrats in the NEC or the ANC. That is why the ANC is NOT a ruling party but a governing party. Only royalty RULES but political parties govern based on the will of the people. I have personally and politically known Comrade JZ for a long time, in fact since about 1982. He was always a nice and good comrade to know, trust and talk to. He always gave himself sufficient time to visit us as students at the National University of Lesotho and spent hours upon hours discussing and debating with us. He reported to the ANC leadership in Lusaka in the 1980s that he had “found gold” at the National University of Lesotho. Those ANC students were later to play important roles, some controversially so, from time to time. He was a good man. Something went wrong. I am saddened by this. But I still have a lot of respect for his role in the Struggle: fearless and resolutely committed. I am still hoping for a comradely lazy lunch with him to understand why he is destroying a good legacy. So, on January 8, every year, we celebrate the birthday of the ANC. It’s a big occasion for the ANC family, South Africans and all our global friends, colleagues and comrades. We brag about everything and criticise ourself for all our faults. But it’s also like Derby Day! We come out in full ANC regalia, we sing and dance and really have a good birthday party. That is allowed and good. Lift up our spirits at the beginning of the year. ANC Leads! ANC Lives! That is the spirit of the January 8 celebrations. These are not government functions. These are party political events. Join in if you will or stay away. The NEC uses this occasion to communicate its ideas about the following year. “Dis is how we du it”! This year was dedicated to Oliver Reginald Tambo. The message going through the January 8 statement was really about OR Tambo - President OR - as we used to call him. His value system, ethics, high moral principles and gravitas. We are basically saying if you want to lead the ANC, the black people and Africans in particular and South Africa, look at yourself in the mirror in front of you and ask the question: do I equal to the integrity and gravitas of OR Tambo? That theme was carefully chosen by the NEC. A very strong message to those who occupy positions in our movement but are not equal to OR Tambo. Let those who have a conscience check it out! My grandfather, Kokwana Makhakhamele Mboweni, who had married my beautiful grandmother, Gabaza, was drafted into the Union African Warriors Force that was on SS Mendi when it sunk off the coast of England. “Be quite and calm my countrymen I am a Zulu, say here and now that you are my brothers Xhosas, Swazis, Pondos, Basotho, and all others, Let us die like warriors. We are the sons of Africa”. These were the words of Reverend Isaac Wauchope Dyobha. The “others” that the reverend referred to included my grandfather. I was pleased that the ANC NEC decided to include this quote from the sinking of SS Mendi, and I am forever grateful to former president Mbeki for naming one of our battle ships SS Mendi. What of this year, 2017? A tumultuous year I can promise you that. *  Mboweni is an ANC NEC member and former governor of the SA Reserve Bank and minister of labour. He writes in his personal capacity. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Saturday Star 