Durban There was no learning in the first week of school for pupils of Nkwelo Primary in Nkandla when the school gates did not open. By Thursday afternoon, two days into the school year, the school remained closed. The Department of Education said the problem arose as some schools in the area were supposed to have merged. But parents are fuming that they were not told on time and that their children are losing precious learning hours. This comes after Nkwelo Primary School had to undergo an enrolment process of being merged with Makhathini Primary School, a local school in the Nkandla municipality. The schools had to be merged because of the low number of pupil enrolments. A parent, who did not want to be named, said the Education Development Officers (EDOs), without the parents consent, approved the merger. Nkwelo Primary School had more pupils than the other school last year and is the second best primary school in the area. How can they expect our children to go to a school that has a lower performance rate and less enrolment?&quot; In a meeting that was held in November we asked for Makhathini Primary School to be our local high school as we do not have one around the area and Nkwelo to remain a primary school, he said. The simple fact they did not inform us about their decision is because they knew we would not agree. School children are now stranded. We will not take our kids to that school.&quot; We want Nkwelo Primary School to be opened as we want what is best for our children, he added. Rethabile Mdunge, one of the parents who went to register her children for Grade 1 at Nkwelo Primary School said she was frustrated when she found the school closed. Other children are at school and mine are still sitting at home.&quot; Schools are far and our children are still young to walk to a distant school. We do not have money for transport. We want the school to be opened, she said. Muzi Mahlambi, KwaZulu Natal Department of Education spokesperson said the negotiations for schools to merge is a three-year joint decision among parents, the community and anyone involved. We have engaged with everyone and we will re-engage with them. We will take our time until they see what is good for them. We want the best of interest for everyone, said Mahlambi.Daily News