Durban - The National Health Department could find itself in a crisis if all stakeholders do not reach an understanding on government s proposed implementation of the new Commuted Overtime Policy.The policy calls for employees to provide proof they worked overtime, and if they were called, to provide evidence of the calls received. There has been unhappiness about the policy since it was communicated to health practitioners early last year.In a recent website communiqu&eacute; to its members, the South African Medical Association (Sama) unequivocally confirmed it did not agree with the proposed new policy.Dr Mzukisi Grootboom, Sama chairperson, said there was confusion in the interpretation of the policy. We suggested that we sit down and discuss the nitty-gritty we have identified, he said.According to the policy, the first on-call doctor is on site at the health facility for the full duration of the on-call hours, while the second on-call doctor, more senior doctors, are usually called in to advise and provide guidance to junior doctors. The third on-call doctors, consultants who are specialists, can intervene telephonically.Wilmot James, the DA s national health spokesperson, said the Western Cape had implemented only aspects of the new policy. Other provinces are uncertain. The whole process is convoluted. The department (health) lacks the capacity and the robust professionalism to reach a proper agreement with Sama and then it blames the so-called Sama obstructionism, James said.In KZN, the policy was poorly communicated and everyone was expected to simply swallow it whole. Unfortunately and often, when doctors or nurses and other staff raised their views, they became victims of the system of patronage. Imran Keeka, DA health spokesperson in KZN, said: If the policy is to work in the province, there has to be broader consultation and tweaking to ensure it is eventually and smoothly implemented. Also, the necessary tools need to be in place such as a biometrics system or other tools to monitor the overtime. Otherwise it leaves room for abuse and over-claiming . Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi. Picture: Kopano Tlape DoC Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, the Health Minister, recently lashed out at Sama after its claims that the policy had been suspended. Motsoaledi told the Daily News on Tuesday that the policy was not suspended. Instead, the department would, for the next three months, be developing standard operating procedures.Motsoaledi said he was taken by surprise by Sama s stance on the policy. We said we can t have doctors who don t appear at work and expect to earn the same overtime as those who present themselves at work. What the policy says is that if you are off-site you are entitled to 30% overtime and if you are on site then you are entitled to 100% overtime remuneration, the minister explained. Anyone with issues with the policy must raise it during the three-month period. To criticise and claim that the policy has been suspended is unfair. This is embarrassing for us as a profession because we didn t wake up and say here s a policy let s implement , he said.He questioned the logic of paying doctors on-site overtime equal to those who were at home, adding that the policy the department was replacing was illegal. The old policy had too many discrepancies. Five years ago, the Free State province was the first to pick up the discrepancies in the policy, modified but never implemented it. Three years ago, the Western Cape took the modified policy, re-modified and implemented it, and it worked well in that province. We then took what the two provinces have done and modified it. This is what Sama is against, he said.Daily News