Cape Town There was mayhem and blood on the streets of Bonteheuwel on New Year s Eve when 10 children were run over by an alleged drunk driver. Residents say the man, who is known to them, drove off after the incident and hasn t been seen since.A neighbour said that everyone was dancing in Soetdoring Street to celebrate the new year when the man ploughed into the group of teens. The incident occurred at about 1.40am and the car sent bodies flying through the air. Miraculously, no one was killed, one woman said.The resident, who asked not to be named, said the teens, aged between 14 and 17, were braaiing and dancing to loud music in the street, watched over by some of their parents, when a man who had attended a party at another house decided to drive home dik gesuip (drunk) .The woman said she was surprised, since the man was usually the sober one among his friends. It is unlike him to be reckless or even drive off the way he did. Everybody knows him, she said. It is traditional in Bonteheuwel for people to have street parties (on New Year s Eve). My kids were inside already and I just heard screaming. We went out to see and the kids were just lying in their own blood. Two kids had minor injuries and two could be stitched up at Vanguard Hospital, but the other six were rushed to Groote Schuur Hospital and Somerset Hospital with serious head and leg injuries,&quot; said the woman. People say after running down the kids, he just drove off in his bakkie. The Bonteheuwel Gangwatch page on Facebook posted a photo believed to be that of the driver, asking for people who know him to inform police.Bonteheuwel ward councillor Angus McKenzie expressed shock at the incident and said charges have been laid against the driver. As a community we are thankful that no children lost their lives, but are however praying for the full recovery of all kids during this time, he said. Charges have been laid against the driver and I can confirm SAPS are placing huge emphasis on bringing the perpetrator to book. The Western Cape police spokesman was approached for comment, but a response was not available at the time of going to press. Daily Voice