Cape Town &nbsp;- About 150 people have had to be evacuated from their homes following a fire that started on Monday night in the Drakenstein area.Farmworker Karen Johannesen said their house burnt down in the flames. We were sleeping when it broke out and we ran out and tried to get things out. We didn t manage to get anything. We re still wearing the same clothes as last night, she said.She said the fire started in the mountains and the strong winds fanned the flames. We just smelled smoke and we woke up and tried to save what we could. With her children due to start school on Wednesday, she said, she doesn t know what she will do about uniforms and stationery.&nbsp;Joandra Johannesen and her mother Karin were among those who lost their homes in the Paarl fire. Picture: Henk KrugerDruk My Niet Wine Estate winemaker Alex Mcfarlane said all their guests escaped the fire unharmed and were taken to alternative accommodation around Paarl. We lost most of our guest houses, the owner s home and a wine cellar, said Mcfarlane.She said the cause of the fire was not known and the farm had yet to assess the damage.&nbsp;Drakenstein fire service spokesperson Derrick Peceur said on Tuesday their teams were still busy battling the blaze near Wellington where it was not yet contained.&nbsp;He said 13 structures were affected by the fire and 150 people were evacuated to Dal Josafat Primary School to get away from the smoke and the heat.Peceur said the evacuation was a safety precaution due to temperatures reaching the high 30s which, coupled with the heat from the fire, posed a health risk. Teams would remain on site throughout the night, he said.Peceur said they had not yet established the cause of the fire and the damage assessment was still under way.Paarl Incident Command Post spokesperson Justin Lawrence said on Tuesday that firefighters were still battling the fire which started before midnight on Monday on the Du Toitskloof Mountain.Due to strong south-easterly winds the fire moved in the direction of the Newtown and Perdeskoen areas.He said firefighting crews from the Cape Winelands District Municipality, Drankenstein Municipality, CapeNature, Working on Fire and the West Coast District Municipality were working together to put out the blaze.Lawrence said about 250ha of vegetation had been burnt, while structures had also been lost in the fire by Tuesday morning, but no deaths or injuries had been reported.ADT Security s district manager Verena Hulme said: The brave men and women of Drakenstein Farm Watch are heroes. They put their own lives at risk to immediately work with other firefighters to get residents out of harm s way.&quot;&quot;We have tasked our armed response officers in the area to assist wherever they can, and to keep an eye on homes that might be unoccupied right now to prevent any looting. The Helderberg fire that broke out last week was still burning after the strong winds sparked flare-ups of hot spots.On Tuesday morning the city s fire and rescue spokesperson, Liezel Moodie, said: Somerset West Fire and 107 City firefighters were assisted by 50 Working on Fire and 12 Nature Conservation staff as well as three helicopters. Currently ground crews are monitoring areas as well as attending to hot spots and flare-ups.&quot;Cape Argus