MAFR comes at a time when issues of audit independence, the maintenance of audit and reporting standards as well as transformation represent key touch points for the profession. Audit independence is carefully enshrined in all laws governing the profession and remains the bedrock of the profession’s reputation - a non-negotiable if the report of the auditor is to remain relevant for all users of financial statements. Before considering some of the concerns raised by the CFO Forum, attention must be drawn to a dilemma unique to the audit profession which involves: The requirement that the profession must schizophrenically serve numerous “masters”, being all users of financial statements as opposed to the client exclusively. The fact that the audit firm is expected to be independent of the client, yet the audit fees paid by the client constitute the livelihood of the profession. The recent CFO Forum press release raises many objections with respect to the Irba’s proposed MAFR, which include but are not limited to: The potential to cost billions of rand to implement. The failure by the Irba to provide evidence of lack of auditor independence and how MAFR will foster greater independence. The global financial crisis in 2008 being justified as motivation for more audit independence. MAFR will cause loss of institutional knowledge.  Audit quality At first blush, the CFO Forum makes a good argument for MAFR being unnecessary, especially when South Africa is an international leader in reporting standards and audit quality. But, auditors will be aware that often things are not always what they seem. So, will MAFR cost billions of rand to implement? The American CPA Journal provides compelling evidence with respect to the 12600 public companies registered with the US Securities and Exchange and the subject of voluntary audit rotation. Between 2003 and 2006, there were 6543 auditor changes, meaning more than 50 percent of public companies in the US changed auditors in a four year period. Would 50 percent of US companies have chosen voluntary audit rotation over this period if these decisions meant additional costs in the billions of dollars? What about independence and the failure by the Irba to show a lack of independence? He who pays the piper calls the tune together with empirical evidence of humankind through the ages clearly illustrating that financial recompense creates an umbilical cord of significant influence which has the propensity to cloud judgment and the familiarity of a continuous and all but guaranteed audit engagement creates the wonderful “old boy” relationship.  Business risk Would MAFR have prevented the 2008 global financial crisis which was a function of business risk as opposed to audit failure and will MAFR make a difference? Companies very seldom fail overnight - it is a process which unfolds over a number of years and there is no doubt that business risk caused the crisis and failures of companies like African Bank. What remains unanswered is whether the auditors of the companies which precipitated the global crisis ever assessed their respective clients’ business and other risks correctly in order to design programmes of audit work whose results would have identified these risks at an early stage. Is it not audit failure when an audit firm is unable to understand the business risks of its client? MAFR will create a more competitive environment which is less conducive to allowing audit firms to fall asleep at the wheel.  Simon Mantell runs a biscuit factory in Cape Town called Mantelli’s. He is a CA(SA) in business and served articles with a big four firm. BUSINESS REPORT