Durban - A Phoenix pensioner who was stabbed in the chest by armed robbers in her home early on Thursday is recovering in hospital. Seventy-four-year-old Ratha Harrinarain, a dressmaker, was asleep in her Palmview home when two armed men accosted her.Her daughter, Prenisha Lakhan, said Harrinarain had left the house keys on the lounge table, but had forgotten to close the window before going to bed. At 4am, the robbers used a rod to grab the key and then unlocked the doors and gates. My mother heard noises inside the house. When she got up to grab her phone and call for help, the men grabbed her. I am not sure at which point in the robbery they stabbed her and what weapon the robbers used, Lakhan said. The robbers ransacked the house and took several items.They had time, said Lakhan, to move the cupboards and unplug the appliances from the wall. Drenched in blood, Harrinarain managed to open the side door and scream for help. When I arrived, my mother was soaked in blood. There was blood all over the house. I am not sure if they pushed her from room to room or if they beat her up. She is too emotional to talk and is receiving medication. She lost a great deal of blood. Harrinarain was taken to Mount Edgecombe Hospital where she is recovering in the Intensive Care Unit.During the robbery, the men cleared out a wardrobe, said Lakhan, and attempted to push the pensioner inside. Harrinarain has five children and 10 grandchildren and was looking forward to her 75th birthday on Monday. She was well known for sewing sari blouses. It was devastating to see my mother in that condition. We are lucky she is alive. Other people can learn from this. I urge people not to leave windows unlatched and doors unlocked. She kept praying throughout the ordeal for God s help, Lakhan said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed the incident. The suspect stabbed the victim in the chest before taking an electric iron and a television set, she said. A case of house robbery was opened at Phoenix police station and no arrest had been made. Daily News