Cape Town With the opening of public schools today, many parents can now relax after buying their children s uniforms, stationery and lunch meals.After weeks of running around trying to prepare for the new academic year, the time has come for children to get their brains into gear.More than one million pupils are expected to arrive at schools across the Western Cape to begin the academic year on Wednesday.Education MEC Debbie Sch&auml;fer said that the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) had been working hard to ensure the schools were prepared for the year. Furniture and equipment, as well as textbook orders, were made well in advance to ensure early delivery at schools before the end of last year. General manager of De Jagers, Willie Minnie, said that the two days before schools open are usually the biggest days for the store. Usually the whole family will come in to help with the process of choosing the items, especially the younger children like the Grade 1s will be accompanied by extended families. He added that during the last part of last month and the first two weeks of this month, more money was spent on school clothes than in the rest of the year combined. The peak is very high and this creates a bottleneck in the stores, but we try to help all our clients as quickly as possible. We found that a lot of parents came to the stores at the end of December. According to Minnie, the current figures for January seem to be on a par with last year s figures for the store.Private schools are set to open on January 18, thus giving parents more time to do final preparations for their children. Thembela Mngxunyeni, whose 6-year-old daughter will be attending Grade 1 at St Joseph s Marist College in Rondebosch, said she only got her child s uniform finalised on Tuesday. Seeing that she will only be attending school next week, I decided to relieve some stress by getting everything done early. My daughter is so excited about started Grade 1 and if it were up to her, she would go to school tomorrow, she said.However, Mngxunyeni said that she did not realise how expensive school uniforms were. Wow! I spent a lot of money today. One pair of socks cost me about R25. I did not think that it would be that expensive, she exclaimed.Cape Times