Pretoria The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) on Wednesday weighed in on the recent explosive revelations on the establishment of the so-called R50 million &quot;War Room&quot; a covert operation allegedly by the African National Congress targeted at other South African political parties in the run up to the 2016 local government elections. &quot;There has never been a meeting where the ANC planned to sabotage other organisations. Why would we plan to sabotage other organizations? The ANC is a principled organisation. We were meeting to plan on how we advance our campaigns,&quot; ANCYL Secretary-General Njabulo Nzuza told reporters in Pretoria. &quot;People must stop spreading hullabaloo about the ANC. It's high time people stop. It must come to an end now. This thing of waking up and denting the name of the ANC must stop, in fact the ANC must take action against people who say things against it whilst they have not been proven. We can't have the name of the ANC being dragged through the mud.&quot; Public relations specialist Sihle Bolani sparked a social media storm when she took the African National Congress to court, claiming that the organization owed her more than R2 million for work she did as part of the &quot;war room&quot; which was mandated to lead a smear campaign against the Democratic Alliance and the Economic Freedom Fighters. Sisulu breaks silence on ANC #WarRoom Also read: ANC denies 'covert campaign' against DA, EFFHer urgent court bid was however dismissed in the South Gauteng High Court. Nzuza said there was nothing sinister with the ANC's strategies for the tightly contested polls. &quot;People must desist from calling our meetings at Luthuli House as if we were planning on bombing countries. If you want to call those meetings a war room, you can say it all you like, but the ANC will have those meetings just like any other organization. It is not wrong for those meetings to be held,&quot; Nzuza emphasized. &quot;People must stop painting a picture as if the ANC must not hold meetings now. You want us to fear holding meetings to plan against our opposition now? We can't stop.&quot; The mandate of the &quot;war room&quot; reportedly involved an extensive social media campaign, undermining the leaders of the opposition parties, particularly Julius Malema of the EFF. African News Agency