Valentine's Day is around the corner and what a better way to spoil your other half than planning a romantic trip. We look at some of the best spots in the country. KwaZulu-Natal  Antbear Lodge Address: Fernhurst Farm, Estcourt, 3310 Contact: 076 441 2362 Antbear Lodge is situated in the centre of the Drakensberg, overlooking the Bushmans River Valley with a view of Giants Castle. Antbear Lodge story begins with owners Andrew and Conny Attwood buying a ruin on a dilapidated piece of land. The lodge is a responsible tourism destination as they employ local Zulu staff from the area, many of them with no previous work experience or formal training. Their main aim is for people to disconnect and it allows an escape from a stressful and busy life. Keeping eco in mind, the lodge accommodation has created beautiful organic structures from straw bales, natural rock and sun dried bricks. Each of the accommodation units are different and are decorated with uniquely eccentric and artistic wooden furniture hand made at the lodge. Standard features of a room include fireplaces, hair dryers, tea and coffee trays, a complimentary carafe of sherry and a mini fridge. While at Antbear, there are lots to do within the Drakensberg area that will keep lovebirds occupied, including hot air balloon rides, visit the Battlefields, an area in KZN that contains the greatest number of battlefields and historical sites in South Africa. If couples are feeling adventurous then go on a quad biking trail or dine at the Midlands Meander with a series of restaurants to choose from. Book a Garden View Suite which includes a 3 course dinner and  breakfast.  The Mountain View suite has a spacious lounge and a Jacuzzi spa baths. Rates start from R1250 per person. Mpumalanga  Bergwaters Eco Lodge & Spa Address: N4, Waterval Onder, Emgwenya, 1195 Phone: 082 805 6099 Bergwaters Eco Lodge & Spa is considered among the best accommodation establishments in the Waterval Boven area in Mpumalanga. They offer a beautiful and peaceful retreat in a secluded valley surrounded with the splendours of nature. It is known for its tranquil atmosphere and promises the perfect escape for couples who seek to rejuvenate their relationship in a way that will last longer than a few days stay at the hotel.  Some of the amenities and activities on offer include a squash court, tennis court, swimming pool, trout fishing, day walks as well as table tennis and a pool table. There is also the Beauticus Country Spa, located at Bergwaters Eco Lodge, that offers various treatments and packages for both guests and day visitors. There are specials for Valentine's Day. For 2 nights, a couple can enjoy four  3 course dinners, four full English breakfasts, a couples neck back and shoulder massage and a couples express facial at a discounted rate of R3465. There will also be a bottle of champagne on arrival. Cape Town Platbos Log Cabins Address: Slanghoek Road, Slanghoek Valley Contact: (023) 344 3138 One look at their pictures online is enough to want to book a weekend away. The three cabins are situated alongside the mountains and Slanghoek Valley. Each log cabin has an open-plan kitchen and living area, two bedrooms, showers and works on gas, solar and battery power only. Among the activities include fly fishing, birdwatching, hiking, swimming at the Slanghoek Resort/dam, mountain biking and hiking. The calm environment is perfect for a breakaway from city living. Rates start from R1400 for two people, thereafter R500 per a person per a night.