Johannesburg Johannesburg High Court Judge Cassim Moosa on Wednesday continued his judgment in the case against Kempton Park model agency boss Dawie de Villiers, who faces a range of charges including rape and the possession of child pornography. De Villiers is facing various charges including unlawfully exposing his two children to pornography, rape, sexual assault, sexual grooming and fraud. Judge Moosa recounted the testimony of a young woman, who was 15-years-old in 2011 when she was allegedly raped by de Villiers. The young woman, who is now 21, told the court that she was dressed in a bra, bikini bottoms and skirt when de Villiers put his hand on her leg and started kissing her before he allegedly raped her. She said moments after the alleged rape she hid in the toilet crying, until her father came to fetch her. The woman said that at the next meeting with de Villiers at a modelling camp, he told her to stop spreading stories about his agency before he gave her a morning after pill and said he would come after her and her family if she said anything about what had happened. She told the court that she was then contacted by another man who said he would help her with getting de Villiers charged for what he did to her. She said she was later invited on Blackberry Messenger(BBM) by an unknown person whose name later changed to &quot;Dawie CEO&quot;. The young woman testified that he said that he didn't rape her but &quot;made love to her&quot;, and asked her to send pictures of her private parts to him. She told the court that she felt obliged to have sexual relations with de Villiers prior to the rape because she wanted to be a model but her mother couldn't afford the fees, and de Villiers offered to &quot;sponsor &quot; her. The 21-year-old said that she felt like a prostitute because of her actions and couldn't tell anyone about the matter. She had felt &quot;disgusted&quot; with herself. Moosa also recounted testimony of another model of de Villiers who said that he had touched her and sent her inappropriate messages. The judge also summarised the testimony of a woman who was allegedly defrauded by De Villiers. She had told the court that she applied for a R50 000 loan for shares in de Villiers's modelling agency and that he flirted with her on BBM and during telephone calls despite knowing that she was in a relationship. He told her to deposit around R40 000 for the purchase of a camera and met up with her so that she could give him the rest of the money. She said that de Villiers said she would receive R2500 per month from him but only received R2000. She said that he was very convincing and said she didn't have to have her lawyer look at the contract as he had done so already. When questioned about the money owed to her, she said de Villiers always had excuses. She was later blocked on BBM and her calls to de Villiers were also blocked. She was also blacklisted by her bank. Judgment is expected to continue on Wednesday afternoon. African News Agency