Johannesburg Police have launched a manhunt for a number of criminals that have allegedly been responsible for a string of crimes including murder, attempted murder and armed robberies over the weekend in Olivehoutbosch, Gauteng police said in a statement. Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said on Monday that in one of the incidents a two-year-old child was shot and wounded during an armed robbery, while in another incident four people were shot and wounded. &quot;A two-year-old child who was shot and wounded during an armed robbery died later at the Kalafong Hospital. The suspects then robbed the parents of cell phones and cash. Police are appealing to members of the community in Olievenhoutbosch to isolate these criminals and report their whereabouts to the police,&quot; Dlamini said. &quot;Four other victims were shot and wounded. Two were shot during house robberies by a group of three suspects armed with firearms. The suspects then stole several household goods and cell phones. Two other victims were attacked by the suspects while they were driving their vehicles near a local tarvern on New Year s eve. One was shot in the leg and another in their upper body and the suspects fled without taking anything.&quot; It is believed that the motive for the shooting was an attempt to rob the victims. All the victims were taken to Kalafong Hospital. One of them was in a serious but stable condition. In another incident in the area, a group of three suspects robbed a local business, Dlamini said. &quot;The suspects gained entry through the business by breaking a wall. Once inside, the businessman and his son were pointed with firearms and the suspects stole cash, cigarettes, groceries and prepaid airtime valued at more than R100 000. The suspects tied up the victims before fleeing from the scene.&quot; Police are investigating the possibility that the same group of suspects are responsible for the spate of crimes in the area and several leads to identify them are being followed. African News Agency