Johannesburg - As rainy conditions continue across Gauteng, scores of people were on Tuesday seriously left injured in separate accidents across the province.   The accidents happened on Tuesday morning in Randburg, Constantia Park as well as Cleveland.  In the first incident, four people were left injured, two of them seriously, after two bakkies collided head-on in Constantia Park, Pretoria East. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics, along with other services, arrived on the scene to find the bakkies on the side of the road. "Upon closer inspection, paramedics found that two patients had sustained serious injuries while the remaining two had sustained only moderate injuries. "The patients were treated for their injuries... the seriously were injured provided with advanced life support interventions before being transported to nearby hospitals for further treatment." In another incident, 23 people were left injured after a taxi crashed into another on Malibongwe Drive in Randburg. Meiring explained that paramedics arrived on the scene to find one taxi in the middle of the road while the second had come to a stop on the side of the road.  "Several occupants were found walking around on the scene while three patients were found trapped inside one of the taxis. "Rescue services had to use specialised equipment to free the patients while local authorities diverted the traffic. Once freed, paramedics assessed the patients and found that 23 patients had sustained injuries ranging from critical to minor. He confirmed that the patients were then treated for their injuries, with the critically injured receiving advanced life support interventions before being transported to various hospitals for urgent treatment. In Cleveland meanwhile, five people were left injured following a collision between two taxis and a bakkie on the M2. Paramedics arrived on the scene to find all three vehicles in the fast lane of the highway.  "Paramedics assessed the patients and found that a total of five had sustained minor to moderate injuries. "The patients were treated for their injuries and were thereafter transported to Hillbrow Clinic for further treatment. Meiring said local authorities were on the scene of all three accidents to carry out further investigations.  IOL