Eastern Cape is magnificent, a hidden gem everyone should explore at least once in their life. On a recent tour of the province, organised by the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency, we got to explore some of the most stunning sceneries and places. Here are 5 places to visit in Eastern Cape. 
 
 
The Wild Coast Who should visit: This makes for a great family getaway. What it is known for: Windswept cliffs, deserted white-beaches, forests and waves. What to see: The area also boasts two nature reserves, Hluleka and Mkhambati, which offers affordable accommodation, game viewing, bird watching, whale viewing and fishing activities.
 
Sunshine Coast Who should visit: Adventure seekers. What it is known for: It is a great place to explore and perfect for outdoor lovers. What to see: One should explore the Jikeleza Route, often labelled the tame area of the Wild Coast. It is made up of a cluster of more than 50 tourism attractions and offers over 28 unique accommodation establishments ranging from five star luxury boutique hotels to backpackers. Only 30km away from East London’s airport, this mild-to-wild bush-to-beach route is perfect for the adrenaline junkie or for those wanting to escape from the beaten.
 
Karoo Heartland Who should visit: The traveller who is looking for sun. What it is known for: Karoo Heartland is as an enviro-region that is popular for its diversity of activities. What to see: Some of the best star-gazing and sunsets in the country. 
 
Amathole Mountain Escape Route Who should visit: Someone who seeks a cultural experience. What it is known for: The Amathole Mountain Escape Route stretches from Hogsback in the north, to the Great Fish River in the south and the Dwesa/Cwebe Nature Reserve in the east.  It is filled with Xhosa culture and Settler history. What to see: The main attractions of the area are the densely forested Amatola Mountains, famous for its panoramic views. The popular village of Hogsback lies at the summit of the Mountain pass. It is believed, the famous author J.R.R. Tolkien of the Lord of the Rings trilogy, found his inspiration to create his fantasy universe, Middle Earth, in the magical Hogsback surroundings. Also try their hiking trails , visit Mdantsane Township Tour and Steve Biko Museum in Ginsberg, King William’s Town.
 
Port Elizabeth Who should visit: Port Elizabeth is a place for everyone, from children to seniors. What is it known for: Beaches and historical sights. What to see: Take a boat cruise, go horse riding, see the elephant at Addo Elephant National Park and sample their assortment of seafood offerings.