CAPE TOWN - The dti’s R50 million grant has created 800 jobs in Modjadjiskloof, Limpopo by food manufacturing company, Eastern Trading.  The grant comes from the dti’s Black Industrialist scheme, aimed at growing the global competitiveness of Black-owned businesses.  Agro-processing manufacturer, Eastern Trading, which trades as Dursot All Joy has received the grant of R48 million.  "The funding was used for machinery which resulted in an increase in production and job creation", said Sales and Marketing Director of Eastern Trading, Ismail Darsot.  Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Bulelani Magwanishe expressed his satisfaction with the Black Industrialist Scheme.  "As government we are inspired by the risk and courage demonstrated by the owners of this company in their commendable efforts to help government create the much-needed jobs and contribute in growing the economy. As beneficiaries of government’s policy intervention in the form of our Black Industrialists Programme, we are honoured to see the impact that we are making in partnership with the private sector in the community of Modjadjiskloof and surrounding areas", said Magwanishe.  READ: IDC is holding R23bn in wait for black industrialists Magwanishe added that the expansion project undertaken by Dursot All Joy illustrates what government is capable of doing by means of job creation and global competitiveness.  Dursot All Joy found a niche in the agro-processing sector to the investment value of R120 million.  The R48 million grant afforded Dursot with installing modern technology. Dursot now triples their production outcome.  "As an enterprise advancing industrialisation and manufacturing, this company will contribute in changing the racial composition of our economy, inclusive growth and job creation.  I must commend the owners of Dursot All Joy for challenging the dimensions of food security and to lead us to an understanding of food sovereignty. This is where we internalise our call for ownership of production lines, localise and build domestic markets without doubt, and to additionally support local procurement", said Magwanishe. Local farmers are also benefiting from the scheme, notes Magwanishe.  Through their expansion efforts, Dursot has established a "Tomato Out-grower Scheme" which aims to empower small-scale tomato growers.80 developing farmers have since been contracted and 10 commercial farmers.  READ ALSO: DTI: Forestry and agro-prossesing sectors are key to growing the economy - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 