A backpack is important when taking long road trips as it helps to keep all the essential items in place. Eugene Beck, the CEO of RoadCover, says when it comes to extended road trips, it is important to have a place to store the important items. “While road trips can be a fun way to start a family holiday, planning is key when it comes to making the most of a long road trip. While you need to enjoy every step of the way, travellers must be prepared for all eventualities along the way to their holiday destination. “Backpacks may differ in design, but there are usually two main areas of smaller pockets and larger compartments,” says Beck. Beck shares his tips to organising a backpack: 1.     Bottom left pocket Water bottle: Water is an essential on any road trip. It keeps you hydrated and alert on the road.  2.     Top left pocket First Aid Kit: The medical kit is important for those road emergencies. Beck suggest travellers use a transparent bag for this so that items can be accessed quickly.  Items to include are plasters, sanitizer or disinfectant, painkillers, prescribed tablets, hydration sachets, pills to stop gastro-related symptoms, alcohol wipes, burn cream, anti-histamine tablets and ointment, tweezers and earbuds.  3.     Secondary compartment Toiletries: toothbrush, face wash, toothpaste, hand cream, suntan lotion and insect repellent.  Insert this at the bottom of this pocket so that in case something leaks, it will not go all over the rest of your contents.  On top of this include a raincoat and then a fleece-lined jersey.  4.     Main compartment Always carry a change of clothing such as shorts and t-shirts.  You can also include your tablet or notebook in this compartment, with the clothing providing protection against any bumps.  5.     Top right This position allows for easy access of you cell phone, music device, cables, charger, wallet containing your driver’s license, ID Card, medical aid card etc.  It is also a good place to have emergency numbers written down and typed on your phone.  6.     Bottom right pocket Snacks such as energy bars, peanuts, raisins, and dried fruit.  7.     Security Make sure your bag is tied properly to keep all your items safe inside your backpack.  