Sagarmatha chairperson and former chief executive Paul Lamontagne said yesterday that the appointments strengthened the executive team that would oversee the rapid expansion of the company. “Both Fredericks and Hadfield will concentrate on growing Sagarmatha into the rest of Africa. Fredericks will focus on content syndication and Hadfield on e-commerce opportunities. “Their joint responsibilities will be to acquire new businesses, in line with Sagarmatha’s vision, that complements all the existing enterprises under the Sagarmatha umbrella,” he said. Fredericks is the chief executive of the African News Agency (ANA), which has established itself as Africa’s leading news platform, while Hadfield is the chief executive of Loot.co.za, which has set its sights on unlocking further value in the business and entrenching its foothold in the competitive e-commerce industry. As Sagarmatha’s co-chief executives Fredericks and Hadfield would continue to lead their respective companies, ANA and Loot.co.za. Sagarmatha, whose objective was to leverage technology to create platforms that connected Africans to each other and the world, said that Fredericks and Hadfield were experts in their fields and had worked in a number of African countries over the years. Lamontagne said it had been an honour to lead Sagarmatha Technologies as its first chief executive, and now as its chairperson. “I have worked closely with both Grant and Gary over the past few months and I am impressed with their entrepreneurial spirit. I have no doubt that they will successfully take Sagarmatha to the global stage,” he said. Lamontagne also announced the nomination of Rosemary Mosia as Sagarmatha Technologies deputy chairperson. Mosia is an accomplished black businesswoman and serves on a number of company boards. “I look forward to working with Rosemary, she offers strategic advice and understands our market and vision,” Lamontagne said. Sagarmatha Technologies business solutions include B2B content distribution, B2C applications, enterprise technology solutions such as data storage, cloud computing and digital automation, and a propriety digital video and entertainment platform. Other areas of focus are in fintech, healthtech, edutech, artificial intelligence, virtual reality and augmented virtual reality. Sagarmatha’s business offering enables African entrepreneurs to have access to global business and consumer markets, to develop their own disruptive business models and new jobs will be created. -BUSINESS REPORT