JOHANNESBURG – The highly anticipated annual Raging Bull Awards promises to be the best to date. The award evening and a new event, a preceding investment summit, will held on January 31, 2018 and will be followed by a networking golf day on February 1, 2018. The first Raging Bull Awards ceremony, which was held in 1997, saw top asset fund managers celebrated as the most consistent industry performers. The Raging Bull investment summit and awards to be held in January will now also provide the financial services and investment industry with an opportunity to debate and converse about transformation within the industry and taking the narrative into the future for generations of South Africans from all persuasions to benefit from this industry. The summit will comprise a keynote speaker and two panel discussions in the morning, a finger lunch, and a panel discussion in the afternoon. The speakers at the 2018 Raging Bull Summit will include former Minister of Finance Nhlanhla Nene, Small Business Development Institute Chief Xolani Qubeka, Empowerdex general manager Nomzamo Xaba, Absip president Sibongiseni Mbatha and Financial Services Board market conduct advisor Leanne Jackson There will be panel discussions on investing in BRICS, radical economic transformation as well as the affects of current and future regulation on the investment industry. The awards, which celebrate the top performing unit trust funds across a range of sectors and acknowledges the best unit trust management companies, will be hosted in Cape Town at The Avenue, Dock Road, V&A Waterfront. A total of eight awards will be presented to the top-performing funds in the most popular unit trust sectors; these include foreign-domiciled funds that have been approved by the Financial Services Board. 
Date: Jan 31, 2018 Raging Bull Investment Summit 8.30am to 15.30pm
Date: Jan 31, 2018 Raging Bull Awards 18.30pm to 23:00pm
Date: Feb 1, 2018 Raging Bull Golf Day Venues: Investment Summit & Awards at The Avenue, Dock Road, V&A Waterfront, 8001.
Golf day at Rondebosch Golf Course Costs:
Summit - R2 000 per person (includes tea, coffee and lunch). There is an early-bird special of R1 750 if you book before December 25.
Awards R990 per person, or R9 500 per table (Open to financial services industry participants only. Includes three-course dinner.)
Summit & Golf package - R2 250 per person 
Summit & Awards package - R2 600 per person
Awards & Golf package - R1 400 per person For bookings visit: www.ragingbullawards.co.za
For queries contact: ragingbull@inl.co.za - PERSONAL FINANCE ONLINE 