Most of the late-night TV hosts had plenty to say Wednesday about the downfall of "Today" show host Matt Lauer, who was abruptly fired earlier that day after allegations of sexual misconduct from an NBC employee. However, one comedian had to miss out: "Late Night" host Seth Meyers, on the same network as Lauer, had to tape his show a day early because of NBC's Christmas tree lighting event at Rockefeller Center near his studio Wednesday night. Meyers will probably have some thoughts on Thursday night. In the meantime, here are some themes that the other hosts discussed about the Lauer story, such as President Donald Trump's response. Here's what they had to say about the many sexual harassment scandals surrounding men in media: Stephen Colbert: "Welcome to 'The Late Show,' I'm your host, Stephen Colbert. I am one of the few men still allowed on television." Trevor Noah: "How many news people is this now? There was Bill O'Reilly. Charlie Rose. Mark Halperin. Soon, they'll have enough guys to start their own Perv News Network." Jimmy Kimmel: "Quite a day: Garrison Keillor, Matt Lauer. I'm hearing, don't quote me on this, this is inside information - there's talk young Sheldon might be next." And Trump's Twitter reaction - and that more than a dozen women have accused Trump of sexual harassment, which he has denied. Jimmy Fallon: "Radio host Garrison Keillor was also fired today. They're just the latest in a long line of famous men to lose their jobs for inappropriate sexual behavior. Or as one guy put it, (Trump impression) 'Is it hot in here? It's getting hot, right? It feels like super hot? Like really, really hot?'" Fallon: "Actually, President Trump tweeted about Matt Lauer being fired and went on to attack NBC News executives and Joe Scarborough. Then Kim Jong Un was like, 'Uh, did you guys not see that missile yesterday or ...? I mean, I know you're busy, but I can relaunch it or something.'" Colbert: "Donald Trump weighed in on the Lauer story, tweeting, 'Wow.' Wait a minute, 'Wow'? I'm still not used to a president typing the word 'Wow.' That's like if the first draft of the Gettysburg Address was 'Holy guacamole, this war sucks.'" Colbert: "Fake news - do you mean, 'More than a dozen women have accused Trump of improper conduct or sexual assault'? Is that what you mean by fake news? Listen up! You don't get to comment! That is the pot calling the kettle at 3 a.m. and asking what she's wearing." Kimmel: "If anyone knows about inappropriate behavior at the workplace at NBC, it's Donald J. Trump. Is he aware that he's him? I don't think he is. I think he sees Donald Trump on TV and goes, 'I like that guy.'" - How Savannah Guthrie and Hoda Kotb had to deliver the news about Lauer on "Today," minutes after they learned their colleague was fired. Noah: "They just found out and then they had to report it. No time to process their emotions, nothing. The stage manager was just like 'Three, two - we fired Matt Lauer - and we're live!'" Colbert: "This morning, Hoda Kotb and Savannah Guthrie had to announce Lauer's departure on the 'Today' show, which must have been awkward for them, and even more awkward for the fans outside the window. 'Wooo! Go Hawks! Go Hawks! Where's Matt? Why's everybody so sad in there?'" The Washington Post 