CAPE TOWN – Former Urban Warriors goalkeeper Calvin Marlin has returned to the club to take up the assistant coaching position. Ajax Cape Town announced on Wednesday evening that Marlin is back at Ikamva where he will work with newly appointed coach Muhsin Ertugral, who took over the reins last week. The 41-year-old, who enjoyed four years at the club as a player from 1999 – 2003, previously worked alongside Ertugral at Mpumalanga Black Aces with Marlin having spent the last season-and-a-half at Cape Town City. On his switch to the 'red' side of the Mother City, the former Bafana Bafana international expressed his excitement at the challenge at hand. “Once Muhsin got the job he got in touch with me straight away and I was immediately intrigued,” said Marlin. “I thought about it for a couple of minutes and decided it’s an opportunity I can’t pass up on. “This is a great opportunity for me to grow as an individual and I am confident we can get the team back to its best and playing with pride and passion. Marlin continued: “This is a big jump for me, but having worked with Muhsin at Aces I know what is expected of me. I want to learn and grow as a coach and this is the perfect platform. “Muhsin wants the best 24/7, there is no quarter given and he has shown in the past that he can inspire a quick turnaround in fortunes. We have to get going straight away, starting with a good performance against Maritzburg United next week. On walking in the Ikamva corridors once again, Marlin admitted that it was a ‘nerve-wrecking’ experience as he now hopes for success as a coach, having previously made a name for himself as a player at the Parow-based club. “It was a bit nerve-wracking, to be honest,” Marlin added. “Was good seeing some familiar and some new faces. I can’t wait to make new memories here and I am delighted to be back at Ikamva.” Having enjoyed further spells at SuperSport United and Mamelodi Sundowns, Marlin boasts a wealth of Absa Premiership knowledge both as a player and coach – something that will stand Ajax Cape Town in good stead as we aim to resurrect our campaign. The club would also like to take this opportunity to thank Boebie Solomons for his service to the club over the past six months. He mutually agreed to vacate his position as assistant coach. African News Agency (ANA)   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 