Sam Smith and Brandon Flynn have made their relationship Instagram official. The 'Too Good At Goodbyes' hitmaker and the '13 Reasons Why' actor have been dating since October, but have only just shared a picture of them together on the photo-sharing app. Alongside a cute selfie of the pair donning travel pillows with unicorn hats attached to them, Brandon captioned the post: "Rare sighting in London " The 24-year-old actor also shared a festive picture of the 25-year-old singer sporting a pair of snowflake paper glasses, accompanied with the sparkling pink heart emoji on his Instagram story. Sam previously admitted he's pleased to be dating Brandon as he "kind of gets" what it is like to be so famous. He said: "I didn't know we were being pictured and it's such a weird thing to get your head around. But I'm really happy for once. The pictures can rush things but all I know is I'm happy and I'm just trying to see how it goes. "Right now what I'm experiencing is very early days, but it's nice to be with someone who kind of gets it. My job has got in the way of my relationships in the past because it's just hard to relate to, and people don't want to be a part of what I've got going on in my life." Meanwhile, the 'Stay With Me' hitmaker previously said he believes it's "important" to be a "selfish lover" sometimes. He was asked how he hopes to fulfil his desire to be able to have orgasms at the "click of his fingers", and while he prefers to spend time making love, Sam also admits he needs to do whatever it takes to satisfy his own needs in the bedroom. When asked: "What have you done to try and achieve this lifelong dream?", Sam replied: "I take my time, I like to love make." Pressed by the radio presenter on his wishes of climaxing constantly without putting in any effort in the bedroom, he said: "That's not making love is it, really? That's being a selfish lover." However, when it was suggested: 'You have to be selfish every now and then, right?", Sam concluded: "You have to be sometimes." Bang Showbiz