JOHANNESBURG - Arthur Zwane is delighted at seeing the hard work he and his technical team are putting into the Kaizer Chiefs Multichoice Diski Challenge squad. While Amakhosi are renowned as a trophy-winning outfit, they are yet to be victorious in the reserve league competition. That, however, does not mean the former Chiefs winger and his assistants are not producing the goods. Far from it, for the main purpose of the MDC sides is to churn out talent for the senior team. And in that regard, Zwane cannot be faulted. Just this season, three players from the reserve outfit have graduated into Steve Komphela’s team and two of them are already household names on the back of impressive performances. Wiseman Meyiwa and Siyabonga Ngezana have earned their official senior team debuts and both did so with some aplomb. The third graduate, Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, is yet to get a start for Komphela but he is no doubt biding his time and confident he too will bear testimony to the brilliant work being done by Zwane and Co. Zwane couldn’t hide his pride at the fact his products are doing well at the highest level. “The key thing here (reserve team) is to make sure that these boys are ready to competewhen they are given the opportunity with the first team. We are not about results at all costs,” Zwane explained. “Having Siya (Ngezana) doing well there (with the first team) and Wiseman also impressing whenever he is given the opportunity is good for us. It shows that we have been developing players but maybe there was a lack of game time. “Since they are given the opportunity to compete, it shows that we are on the right track. We have a strong foundation from which to build on.” A great success during his playing days, Zwane is best placed to offer salient, yet simple advice to the youngsters on what it takes to remain at the top. “They need to stay focused and disciplined, that’s all,” he said. “We want them to respect the game, not take it for granted. And they must also not take life for granted. We (as Chiefs) had to change our approach in terms of developing players. One of the things we had to add was to focus on their lives outside football. In this game the tendency is to neglect players’ well-being off the field in that we think they are adults and they know what to do and what not to do. And that is why we’ve had a lot of players going off the rails. So we are now there for them for 24 hours and we are doing our best to develop them holistically.” That achieved, Zwane has no doubt the Amakhosi MDC team will continue to churn out great talent for the senior side. The Star   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 