London - Sitting in his
prison cell, Paul Buck was determined that something good would
come out of a secret addiction that had seen him gamble away
millions, attempt suicide and almost destroyed his marriage. The British former wealth manager had a year behind bars to
think about it, after being jailed for stealing 434 000 pounds
(R7.5 million) from his employer, Santander bank, to fund his habit. "It took one bet on a Thursday afternoon in October 1994 to
turn me from someone who had no interest in gambling to somebody
who didn't go without a bet for 17 years," the 41-year-old told
the Thomson Reuters Foundation. As chief executive of Epic Risk Management, a social
enterprise that educates people about the dangers of gambling,
Buck now shares his story with prisoners, students, soldiers and
sports professionals at risk of falling into the same trap. Gambling has higher suicide and bankruptcy rates than any
other addiction, he said, and has also been linked to poverty,
domestic violence and child abuse. Addiction rates are rising because of the accessibility of
online gambling, which accounts for a third of all gambling in
Britain, according to the regulatory Gambling Commission. Losses via computers, mobile phones and tablets rose by 10
percent between 2015 and 2016, to 4.7 billion pounds ($6.3
billion), it said. "Prevention is better than cure," said Buck, who lives in
Preston in the north of England. "It's a long way back if you
are suicidal or have ended up in prison."    ELATION Buck started betting at college, after joining a football
team full of gamblers. "There was an enormous buzz when that first horse went over
the winning line, an intense adrenaline rush, a complete feeling
of elation," he said. In his 20s, Buck's banking career took off. His skill in
providing sound financial advice to wealthy individuals earned
him successive promotions and a six-figure salary. But he felt overwhelmed by lofty expectations of continued
success. Gambling provided an refuge and a release. "Gambling was my safe place, the place where I felt
comfortable, without any stress, away from pressure," he said. "In reality, it was the thing that was destroying me." The amount of time Buck spent gambling on his phone and
computer made his wife suspect that he was having an affair. Wins and losses did not matter. It was just the act of
gambling on the spinning roulette wheel that had Buck hooked. "You can spend 1 000 pounds every 20 seconds," he said. "And
you can do it hidden - at work, at church, wherever." Buck became a problem gambler, a term which means someone
cannot control the time they spend gambling, the money they
spend or their thought processes. "Problem gambling is a recognised mental health condition,"
said Marc Etches, chief executive of the charity GambleAware,
which estimates there are 430 000 problem gamblers in Britain.  SUICIDE Mired in lies and debt, Buck said he decided to take his own
life in 2011. He hosted a managers' meeting in the office, and then went
upstairs to an unused storeroom where he attempted to hang
himself but ended up unconscious for several hours. He knew then
it was time to seek help.
He told his mother and confessed to his wife that he had
spent 4.8 million pounds ($6.4 million), via 93 separate betting
accounts, over the previous eight years and told Santander that
he had stolen from them. Buck was convicted of theft and fraud and sentenced to two
years and eight months in jail. In 2012 he was sent to a Victorian prison where he was
locked up for 23 hours a day with a stranger in a tiny cell. "It was horrendous," he said. "You're hearing violence and
you're seeing someone getting stabbed on your floor." He was freed just over a year later and immediately set
about creating Epic Risk Management, which works with high-risk
industries, from sports and entertainment to financial services,
to prevent gambling harming their staff and businesses. Chelsea Football Club commissioned Buck this year to educate
their elite academy squads, he said, recognising the lure of
betting for well-paid, competitive young men with time on their
hands. "We have our first tech-savvy generation who have been
subject to gambling ads and gaming since the age of seven," he
said. "It's a ticking time bomb that's ready to go off."  Thomson Reuters Foundation