CAPE TOWN - Stellenbosch University's fundraising campaign aimed at alleviating student debt has renewed their target to R999 999.  The campaign, #SU99 had initially set a target of R99 999 which has been exceeded by recent donations. Following the success of the campaign, its new target of R999 999 is expected to be raised by December 27, 2017.  "Many of our students need that final financial push to launch them into a professional career. I am very excited about the #SU99 fundraising campaign and call on all our alumni, donors, partners and friends of the University to support this worthy campaign", said Professor Wim de Villiers, Rector and Vice-Chancellor.  Launched on September 20, the campaign aims to take fundraising to new heights.  "As of 1 December, donations received on the GivenGain platform amounted to R24 000, and donations from alumni, and staff and students have all added a further R32 500 to the campaign but a significant donation of R500 000, received from one of our loyal major donors who regularly provides top-up bursary funding, has enabled us to raise the bar to help more graduates", says Senior Director of the Development and Alumni Relations Division (DAR), Karen Bruns.  "Although many of our students have received bursary support from various partners such as government, foundations, corporates and trusts, there is often still an outstanding amount that is owed by students upon graduation" explained Donor Relations Manager at SU, Cheryl Benadie.  As graduation is upon students of Stellenbosch, it marks the journey of new beginnings.  "Sadly, for some of our first generation graduates, who will enter the world of work as a first generation professional, the weight of debt that they carry on their shoulders as they try to make a fresh start can seem overwhelming. We acknowledge and appreciate the support of all our donors and partners. The need is ongoing", adds Benadie.  "Small donations of R50, R100, R500 etc all add up – it is the power of collective giving in action. We urge you to please consider giving the gift of financial freedom this festive season", concludes Benadie.  LISTEN  READ ALSO: Meet Stellies first female Dean of Economic & Management Science - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 