Durban - Do not let a careless moment ruin your holiday. For South Africans summer spells fun, sunshine and outdoor activities involving watersport and swimming. However, it is also be a time fraught with tragedy for those who are inexperienced, unable to swim and who may for some or other reason be vulnerable to drowning. David Stanton, head of clinical leadership at Netcare 911, says emergency services receive more calls related to drowning and water-associated
emergencies during December and January than any other months. “Our statistics reveal that the greatest percentage of all drowning incidents occur during the peak holiday periods. This is attributable to the high volumes of tourists, both foreign and local, who flock to the beaches during school holidays and over the festive season. “Incidents of drowning are also significantly higher in the coastal areas than inland during December and January. Looking at data extracted from Netcare 911 for the period 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017, 62% of all drowning incidents occurred during peak summer months. When reviewing statistics, coastal areas reflect 55% of all drowning incidents,” he said.  "KwaZulu-Natal saw the highest percentage of drowning incidents during the period, quite possibly because of the warm weather enjoyed all year round in the province and the fact that holiday makers, often from inland, flock to the coastal regions throughout the year. It is however disconcerting to note that Gauteng is a close second with 31.37% of all drownings,” notes Stanton. Stanton said having multiple layers of safety such as a certified safety net, a fence with locked gate, a child-minder and a surface alarm around the pool and spa areas at home or around other open bodies of water can prevent accidents and drowning.“A basic course in first aid and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can make a dramatic difference in the outcome should the skills be applied timeously,” said Stanton.  Safety tips at the beach   
What to do in the event of drowning   Contact Netcare 911 on 082 911  The Independent on Saturday