As a result, the home of Millicent Links, 56, was gutted on Monday night just a week before Christmas while her brother has allegedly gone on the run. Four men who tried to douse the towering flames were treated for smoke inhalation. Millicent says she has been embroiled in a bitter family feud with her 52-year-old brother since her parents died last year.  She says she inherited the Bonteheuwel Avenue house and this angered her brother. “Since that time he has been threatening me and I have a protection order against him. On Monday he was at it again,” she explains. Several relatives had been there to do cleaning as the family planned to host a Christmas lunch at the house.  “He told me in front of everyone that I am going to see what he is going to do. He said he is going to burn the house with me in it,” says Links. The upset woman says later that evening, she was visiting relatives when her neighbours came to tell her that her house was on fire.  “The neighbours saw him throw a petrol bomb into my bedroom. If it wasn’t him, then why would the petrol bomb be thrown in the room where I sleep? I went to the police station to report him,” she says. City Fire and Rescue Services spokesperson, Theo Layne, says firefighters responded to the call at 10.57pm and the fire was extinguished by 11.45pm. He says the house was destroyed in the blaze.  When the Daily Voice visited Links on Tuesday, neighbours were busy helping to remove the remains of the two-bedroom house. A disheartened Links said: “There is no roof, no furniture, my cupboards and clothes are all gone and all the Christmas food and stuff is gone.” The brother, who doesn’t have a phone, hasn’t been seen in Bonteheuwel since.  Ward councillor Angus McKenzie says Links has been to his office several times to raise her concerns about her brother. “All of the complaints and concerns have been referred to SAPS. I am shocked but relieved that she was not hurt and we will stand by her as she proceeds with the case,” he says. “In the meantime, we are appealing for help. My office in Kiaat Road will be open for anybody who would like to drop off donations.”  Daily Voice