Cape Town – Steinhoff‘s recent fall from grace has highlighted that fund managers don’t always know best regarding your investments. In the hopes that savvy South African investors will empower themselves, online education provider GetSmarter has launched a new course from the University of Cape Town - the UCT Investment Management online short course. This online short course will help budding investors gain the confidence to take ownership of their own financial wellbeing by making informed, responsible decisions regarding their investment portfolio. The UCT Investment Management course offers a practical guide to the world of financial investments. It's clear that having a background and some investor insight is vital when choosing how to invest. Leaving all your investment decisions to a fund manager is not always the best idea and can be a costly gamble. This online short  course, which runs over 8 weeks, will arm you with an investment management certificate and empowers you to ask the right questions of your fund manager and equips you with a better understanding of the fundamental principles behind investing. The course is presented entirely online, using a people-centric and proactive learning approach, specifically designed for adult learners. Students can expect to receive a high degree of proactive support from GetSmarter’s team of Success Managers, Head Tutors and Tech Support. What the course offers: * Earn a certificate of completion from the University of Cape Town. * The investigative skills needed for accessing offshore financial investments. * An understanding of the fundamental concepts of investing. * The ability to analyse different investment philosophies and constraints. * The ability to lead and estimate the basic return of an equity investment. * The expertise required to select a money market product and outline its characteristics. * The ability to apply the fundamental principles of pooled investing. * The knowledge to distinguish alternative asset classes and their associated financial markets and products. Stand a chance to WIN a UCT Investment Management online short course with Getsmarter and IOL worth R12 900. To enter, answer the question below: Name one of the skills you will learn when doing the UCT Investment Management Course. Send your name, phone number and answer to IOLCompetitions@inl.co.za with Getsmarter in the subject line.  Competition Rules: The competition will run until January 10. The winner can choose a date in 2018 to commence the course best suited to their availability. IOL is 100% committed to protecting your privacy. We use the information collected to enable you to enjoy the prize draws on the website. When you enter a competition with us, we ask for your name, email address and mobile number. We use this information to manage the prize draws. We use email addresses to notify winners to let them know they have won a prize. We use the mobile numbers provided in order to contact the winner and for prize delivery. Competitions are only open to people residing in South Africa. The winners names may be published on our social media pages. 
Employees of Independent Media, the sponsors & their agents, or any company associated with the competition & their immediate families are not eligible to enter. • Prizes are not transferable or redeemable for cash. •  The judge’s decision is final and no correspondence will be entered into. •  Receipt of entries will not be acknowledged. • The entrant accepts that entry to the competition does not constitute a contract or any form of legal commitment between the entrant and the IOL.