As Western Cape continues to experience a water crisis, South African Tourism urges locals and holidaymakers to use water responsibly this festive season. This week, the City of Cape Town announced that its water crisis had worsened, with dam levels dropping and consumption increasing. South African Tourism’s Chief Executive Officer, Sisa Ntshona, said this was a huge concern. “We know that this is peak holiday season in the Cape, but want to send out an urgent appeal to tourism and hospitality businesses, as well as holidaymakers, to conserve water wherever possible. The situation has reached critical proportions and we cannot afford to ignore it.”  “To those who have booked their holidays in water-scarce areas like Cape Town and Beaufort West: please be extra-vigilant and considerate when using water during this severe drought. Water is a scarce resource in South Africa and we urge all holidaymakers as they make their way to various tourism destinations across the country to be vigilant,” he said.  The Chief Executive Officer of Cape Town Tourism, Enver Duminy, said it was imperative, especially at this time when we welcome visitors to our city, that saving water becomes a primary message and action. “This focus on responsibility regarding our resources is what will ensure the long-term longevity and sustainability of the industry, for the benefit of locals and visitors alike,” said Duminy. Ntshona encouraged establishments to implement water-saving measures such as removing bath plugs, installing water restrictors on shower heads, reducing laundry loads and using paper towels instead of hand towels. Residents and visitors in the City of Cape Town are currently restricted to using 87 litres of treated water per person, per day, for drinking, washing and cooking. The City of Cape Town has advised residents, businesses and tourists to save and recycle water through the following measures: ·       Take two-minute showers instead of water-heavy baths; ·       Collect shower and basin water and use it to flush toilets, wash cars and water the garden; ·       Flush toilets only when necessary; ·       Do not run the tap while shaving, brushing teeth or washing hands; ·       Wait until you have a full load before running your washing machine; ·       Fix any water leaks (including dripping taps) on your property.    Tips on how to use greywater efficiently are available on the City of Cape Town’s website. Calculate your daily water usage by using the city’s water calculator:http://bit.ly/ThinkWaterCalculatorCT.