Vanderbijlpark - Disgraced former Emfuleni local municipality mayor Simon Mofokeng’s private guest house in Vanderbijlpark is still being guarded by municipal security officers despite the Democratic Alliance’s calls for their removal earlier this year, the DA said on Sunday. "The DA is in possession of a document which stipulates the amounts paid for security per month at various station points in the municipality, DA Gauteng MPL Kingsol Chabalala said. According to the document, “mayor’s additions” was stipulated in the fine print for additional security personnel. More than four security personnel had been stationed outside his guest house. The DA obtained this information following a written reply to questions posed in the provincial legislature, Chabalala said. "Former mayor Mofokeng and his cronies have taken enough from the poorest residents in Emfuleni. This R1 million could have been used to aid the municipality in covering its debt to Rand Water, servicing parks and recreation facilities for the youth, or ensuring the municipality keeps the lights on," he said. The municipality deserved a responsive government willing to address the myriad of issues facing the local council. Under the new leadership of African National Congress mayor Jacob Khawe, in his first 120 days he would do well to investigate these security costs and their use for private services by Mofokeng. READ MORE: Gauteng ANC accepts Emfuleni mayor's resignation "Simon Mofokeng’s resignation does not exonerate him from eating the people of Emfuleni’s money. He cannot continue to live the high life while many suffer and lack basic services. Should he be found to have personally requested municipal security personnel to be stationed outside his guest house he must pay back the money to the municipality. "The DA will be closely monitoring developments in this regard, and at all costs, ensure that Emfuleni’s municipal budget goes to improving the lives of residents, not just 'securing' the safety of one man," Chabalala said.  African News Agency