Addressing journalists before attending Eskom’s special general meeting at the utility’s offices, Brown said the Department of Public Enterprises and  National Treasury had to resolve “pricing and cost issues” that had been raised by the power utility. “Eskom has raised the risks and (they) need to be dealt with,” said Brown.  She denied allegations that she was also digging in her heels on the matter. “I still do not have a Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) application on my desk,” she said.  Eskom interim chief executive Sean Maritz said PFMA required Eskom to raise risks in the conclusion of the IPP power deals if there were any. “We need to create a sustainable Eskom for the future. We need to, from a fiduciary point of view, raise the risks,” said Maritz.  Brown’s stance was contrary to Energy Minister David Mahlobo’s claims that Eskom would sign the long-awaited agreements with 27 IPPs in the so-called bid window 3.5 and 4 of the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (REIPPP).  Eskom has consistently refused to sign power purchase agreements with projects approved for the so-called bid-window 3.5 and 4 of the government-run REIPPP programme citing costs and overcapacity. The utility, which is the designated buyer of electricity from IPPs, has maintained that it would sign the power purchase agreements with IPPs at a pace and scale it could afford. It has in the past raised concerns about the uncertainty on the cost recovery mechanism for IPPs’ energy costs. It also said it was  concerned about its long-term financial sustainability.  The government has previously missed self-imposed deadlines to conclude the power purchase agreements.  In February,  former energy minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said the signing of the agreements was imminent following President Jacob Zuma’s announcement during the State of the Nation address that Eskom would conclude the deals.  Joemat-Pettersson said at the time that the impasse between Eskom and the IPPs had been ended. She subsequently set an April 11 deadline for the signing of the agreements.  She was removed as minister in Zuma’s midnight cabinet reshuffle on March 31. Joemat-Pettersson’s successor Mmamoloko Kubayi set a new deadline for the conclusion of the deals. She was also moved to the communications portfolio before the end of October deadline she had set. Khulu Phasiwe, the spokesperson for Eskom, said this week that the utility’s board wanted to discuss with Brown “a number of critical issues that the company is grappling with. In due course, Eskom will make a formal pronouncement about the way forward on all of these issues, including the signing of the renewable energy projects.”  Eskom is the designated buyer of renewable energy from the IPPs.  Meanwhile, Brown on Friday said she was not aware that suspended Eskom executive Matshela Koko had been cleared of the charges he was facing.  She was reacting to reports that Koko had been found not guilty of all the charges he was facing and would be 
making his way back to the utility.  “I have not been informed about Koko. The board will inform me in due course. I believe that the outcome of the disciplinary hearing has been brought to the board (on Friday) morning,” she said  - BUSINESS REPORT 