George Michael's family have posted a glowing tribute to the late star to mark the first anniversary since his passing. The 'Careless Whisper' hitmaker tragically passed away on Christmas Day last year at the age of 53 due to natural causes, and in a heartwarming letter posted to the star's website, his family - including sisters Melanie and Yioda Panayiotou and father Jack Panayiotou - have reflected on the "tough" 12 months since his passing. They wrote: "This year has been a series of new and tough challenges for those of us close and loyal to Yog, not least of which was steeling ourselves this month, to hear 'Last Christmas' and 'December Song' streaming out of shops, cars, and radios, as it has done for decades, knowing he's no longer here with us, missing him.
"This Christmas will be hard without him, but we know that we are not alone in our mourning the anniversary of his loss, and that the sadness of our wider family, and true friends, is shared by many of you.
"We are at 'that age' and realise that this year many of you will have had difficult losses too. (sic)" George's family also asked fans to think of the star "fondly" over the holiday season, and to make an effort to say "I love you" to someone special in honour of the late musical icon.
They added: "Yog, who loved Christmas, and always hoped it would snow... would want each of you that admired and loved him, (yes--he knows you did!!) to take a moment, raise a glass, enjoy his music and think of him fondly, making sure to enjoy your time with, and appreciate your family and friends.
"As we all know Christmas is not always easy, life isn't perfect, and families are complicated...
"Yog shared his music with all of us, and many of you connected deeply with his words, yet in life, many hold their own important words and feelings inside, as so often they are the hardest to say out loud.
"So if you can, in his memory this year, take a moment and a deep breath and say those 'I Love You's' out loud.
"We all think there is time, don't we? - but, just maybe, it's later than you think... (sic)"