CAPE TOWN –  SuperSport United marksman Jeremy Brockie as well as Tendai Ndoro, the one-time red-hot Orlando Pirates striker, are presently headlining the Premier Soccer League (PSL) transfer talk. Brockie had been looking to secure a move to Mamelodi Sundowns before the start of this season. But Matsatsantsa boss Stanley Matthews was adamant that the New Zealand international, the most prolific scorer in the league over the past couple of years, would stay until he had helped them earn a couple more trophies. This season the Tshwane club have won the MTN8 competition and lost in the final of the CAF Confederation Cup. Brockie's contract runs until 2020, but there has been some talk, albeit unsubstantiated, that SuperSport may be willing to cash in on him. The problem as far as Sundowns are concerned is that Orlando Pirates have reportedly entered the race for the 30-year-old Brockie, who for all his scoring prowess over the last three years, has only managed one goal in 11 league matches this term. While Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane faces the prospect of having to fight for Brockie's signature, it appears that he's closing in on signing Cape Town City winger Aubrey Ngoma, a long-time target. This after Citizens boss John Comitis was quoted saying that Ngoma wants to join the Brazilians and that he would consider selling his prized asset to Sundowns if the right deal is on the table. There is also the possibility of Masandawana attacker Mogakolodi Ngele, a similar kind of player to Ngoma, being used as part payment. While City may be forced to reshuffle their squad, local rivals Ajax Cape Town also appear intent on shaking their frontline. For starters, the recently AWOL striker Prince Nxumalo has been linked with Sundowns, who need reinforcing for next year's CAF Champions League. It has also been speculated that newly-arrived Ajax head coach Muhsin Ertugral is looking to temp back Ndoro to the country. The Zimbabwean marksman worked with Ertugral at Black Aces and then Pirates before leaving for Saudi Arabia club Al-Faisaly. And according to one report, Ndoro was spotted in the Mother City this week. His record in the PSL suggests he could be just the man to help revive the Urban Warriors' season. The Ikamva-based club have also been linked with making a move for SuperSport striker Fagrie Lakay, a former Santos striker and the youngest ever player to represent Bafana Bafana. On the flip side, Ajax could lose target-man Tashrique Morris, who is reportedly wanted by SuperSport as a replacement for Brockie, while Urban Warriors midfielder Morne Nel could also be set to return to Matsatsantsa. Ngele meanwhile has popped up as another possible Ajax target despite his link to their PSL neighbours, whose goalkeeper coach Calvin Marlin crossed the 'red' half of the Mother City to become Ertugral's assistant on Thursday. There will likely be many twists and turns yet and a whole lot more business done as the PSL teams look to make the most of the January transfer window. African News Agency (ANA)   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 