Kim Kardashian West has taken to social media to announce the premiere date of her upcoming new beauty reality TV show 'Glam Masters'. The 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' star will serve as an executive producer on 'Glam Masters', an eight-episode show which will search for a make-up star on Lifetime. 😭😍 Introducing the host and judges of #GlamMasters ♥️♥️ (check my previous post for all the details) host and judge @lavernecox judges- @kandeejohnson @zannarassi @makeupbymario We filmed together everyday for HOURS and we had the most amazing time. I made 3 new friends for life ♥️♥️ @glammasters premiers on @lifetimetv on Feb 28th. A post shared by MAKEUP BY MARIO (@makeupbymario) on Dec 5, 2017 at 12:08pm PST  The programme will debut in February, hosted by 'Orange is the New Black' star Laverne Cox, and will feature beauty experts Mario Dedivanovic, Kandee Johnson and Zanna Roberts Rassi as judges for the competition. Kim revealed the details of the show on social media, as well as sharing a trailer.   She wrote: "So excited to announce the premiere date, host and judges for #GlamMasters, the new beauty competition series I'm executive producing. Tune in to @lifetimetv on Feb 28! (sic)" 'Glam Masters' is described as an eight-episode series that puts beauty influencers through various challenges. Each episode will see four beauty bloggers go head-to-head to prove they have what it takes to be the next big name in the beauty world, all while facing the judges. Like other competition shows, the winner each week will qualify to advance to the semi-finals where they will battle it out for one of three spots in the finale. Only one of the hopefuls will get to claim the title of 'Glam Master'. Kim said: "I'm such a beauty junkie and am fascinated by how artists are able to transform someone's look with makeup and couldn't be more ecstatic for them to show what they can really do." And make-up artist Mario is very excited about the show. OMGG I’m soooo excited to finally share this new beauty competition series!!🚨🙌🏼 #GlamMasters premieres on @lifetimetv on Feb 28th! I went into this project feeling unsure, a bit scared and not knowing what to expect and the whole experience became one of the highlights of my career. So emotional, so raw and so real. I can’t wait for you all to watch this! The grand prize is literally life changing. If you like Makeup and beauty this is going to be your favorite show. @glammasters hosted by @lavernecox. Judges- @kandeejohnson @zannarassi @lavernecox and myself! Executive produced by @kimkardashian and @dianamadison ! Stay tuned for more updates and behind the scenes 🎬 #glammasters A post shared by MAKEUP BY MARIO (@makeupbymario) on Dec 5, 2017 at 10:17am PST  He also shared the trailer on Instagram and wrote: "OMGG I'm soooo excited to finally share this new beauty competition series!! #GlamMasters premieres on @lifetimetv on Feb 28th! I went into this project feeling unsure, a bit scared and not knowing what to expect and the whole experience became one of the highlights of my career. So emotional, so raw and so real. I can't wait for you all to watch this! The grand prize is literally life changing. If you like Makeup and beauty this is going to be your favorite show.(sic)"