Whether you’re looking to keep it local or might like to try something different by going abroad, you will be sure to come across something to catch your eye. For some added inspiration on affordable holidays for South Africans, take a look at these 5 travel ideas that you can add to your itinerary in 2018: South Africa: As Sharmila Ragunanan, Group Marketing Manager of Dream Hotels & Resorts recommends, “Affordable holidays for South Africans really do start at home.” “Nothing beats a self-drive through the Western Cape, where the views are free and self-catering accommodation is plentiful and budget friendly, rewarding you with a flexible schedule to braai when you feel like it,” she added. The Western Cape is a hotspot for active travellers with an array of holiday activities such as hiking, biking and and picnicking, especially at Bontebok National Park which is also part of the Cape Floral Kingdom. If you need last minute self-catering accommodation, try Stonehill River Lodge nearby. It’s an ideal self-catering space for friends and family looking to celebrate a special occasion in the new year. Italy “Italy is especially great for families with its historic wonders like St. Peter’s Basilica and the Colosseum, rich in ancient tales of gladiators. Don’t forget about all that pizza, pasta and gelato to keep the travel mood swings at bay,” say Theresa Szejwallo, Trafalgar MD. Visit the historic centres of Rome, Venice, Florence and Naples on an all-inclusive guided tour, great for those who have never been and are interested in skipping the queues at those major attractions. Greece: Another on for Europe, Greece is a well-loved travel destination that travellers can now start putting it back onto the agenda in 2018, especially those seeking affordable holidays for South Africans. “From Athens to the islands, this summertime gem is making a comeback on travel itineraries so it's highly recommended to book early to avoid disappointment,” urges Szejwallo. Seychelles “If your eye is wandering a little further than the South African coastline this year, what about the Seychelles?” asks David Germain, Seychelles Tourism Board.    “You don’t need to pay five-star rates to be based near the prime beach locations. There are plenty self-catering options that won't burn too many holes in your bank card. If you are looking for a little added comfort though, try some of the more affordable hotel options located on Mahé,” he added. Berjaya Beau Vallon Bay and Coral Strand offer budget-friendly accommodation on the main island, with inclusive non-motorised water activities such as snorkelling, swimming and volleyball. Not to mention those cocktail menus to keep you well hydrated. Mozambique Mozambique tops the list when it comes to romantic but affordable holidays for South Africans, says Stephanie Von Allmen, General Manager of Dana Tours in Mozambique. “Keep an eye out for those Mozambique specials. We’ve a great one with Anantara Medjumbe Island Resort recently and we still have one with Southern Sun Maputo on the go,” she added.  Maputo is only an hour’s flight from Johannesburg, which makes it an ideal location for a weekend city break in the New Year. Go for the specials that include transfers and flights, and you won’t need to worry about those border queues during the peak seasons.