A lacklustre Manchester United responded to their derby defeat by Manchester City with an unimpressive 1-0 Premier League win over Bournemouth at a subdued Old Trafford on Wednesday. Romelu Lukaku’s ninth league goal of the season, a 25th-minute header at the back post from a Juan Mata cross, was enough to give second-placed United the win, but they had keeper David de Gea to thank for the three points. The Spanish keeper kept out efforts from Charlie Williams, Dan Gosling and Ryan Fraser, and blocked a fierce strike from substitute Jermaine Defoe as Bournemouth pressed for an equaliser that would not have been undeserved. United, who rarely found much fluency at on a rainy and cold night, remained 11 points behind leaders Manchester City who won 4-0 at Swansea City. Tottenham jumped from seventh place to fourth, courtesy of their 2-0 win over Brighton and Hove Albion at Wembley, which arrived courtesy of an over-hit Serge Aurier cross and Son Heung-min’s fourth goal in four games. Spurs, for whom Erik Lamela made his first start in 14 months, are four points below third-place Chelsea in the last Champions League berth. Wayne Rooney’s first-half goal lifted Everton to a 1-0 Premier League win over Newcastle United and continued their revival under manager Sam Allardyce. Rooney struck in the 27th minute, turning in a rebound from close range to secure Everton’s first away league victory in 17 games. Newcastle pressed hard for an equaliser in the second half and Mohamed Diame went close, but Ashley Williams could have doubled Everton’s lead, only to be denied by a fine save from Karl Darlow.   Liverpool suffered more frustration at Anfield as they again dropped crucial home points after being held to a goalless draw by a resurgent and resilient West Bromwich Albion. After receiving criticism for not starting with his key man Philippe Coutinho in the Merseyside derby draw against Everton, Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp brought back the brilliant Brazilian, but his side were still misfiring. The Reds huffed and puffed without even managing a shot on target in the first half with Albion, producing a fine performance under new manager Alan Pardew, coming closest when Hal Robson-Kanu’s shot struck the top of the bar. The home side, pushing hard for victory late in the second half, thought they had broken through only for Dominic Solanke’s bundled goal to be ruled out for handball.  Subscribe to the IOL Sport Newsletter!   West Ham United held out to secure a goalless draw at home with Arsenal after the visitors missed a string of chances in a pulsating clash. West Ham’s brightest moment came in the 90th minute when substitute Javier Hernandez’s shot cannoned off the underside of the bar, against the run of play following waves of relentless Arsenal attacks. Arsenal forward Alex Iwobi hit the post in the first half and midfielder Jack Wilshere blasted over the bar from eight metres after the break as the visitors piled on the pressure and forced a flurry of desperate clearances by West Ham. Reuters, AFP