Johannesburg - BMW’s first-ever X2 crossover is due to hit South African shores around March 2018, but the carmaker has already released local pricing in its latest price bulletin. According to the price list, the X2 will start at R644 252, which doesn’t make it signficantly cheaper than the new X3, bearing in mind however that only higher-spec M Sport derivatives will be sold locally, with BMW SA having opted not to import the ‘standard’ derivatives: BMW X2: SA Pricing: <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> South African buyers will also be limited to two drivetrain derivatives: The petrol option is the sDrive20i, featuring BMW’s 141kW/280Nm 2-litre turbopetrol engine, which drives the front wheels through BMW’s seven-speed dual-clutch gearbox. Those wanting all-wheel-drive will have to opt for the xDrive20d, which gets BMW’s 140kW/400Nm turbodiesel and an eight-speed automatic gearbox - all for a R50 000 premium over the petrol model. All X2 models come with M Sport suspension as standard. The M Sport X model is further differentiated by Frozen Grey wheel arch mouldings, side skirts and bumper inserts - while the standard M Sport gets colour coded cladding. Both roll on 19-inch alloy wheels, and buyers will have the option of upsizing to 20 inch rims. The local features list has yet to be released, but overseas derivatives are offered with a wide array of available gadgets and driver assistance systems, including BMW’s Traffic Jam Assistant with steering assistance. Inside the X2 inherits BMW’s sixth-generation iDrive command centre, with various screen sizes up to 22.3cm depending on the infotainment system specified. Like the latest X1, the X2 is built on BMW’s ULK front-wheel-drive platform, which also underpins the Mini Countryman and which is also expected to form the basis of the next-generation 1 Series hatchback. So where does it fit in? As a coupe-inspired crossver that slots below the X4 class, the new X2 doesn’t appear to have any direct rivals at this stage. Audi’s forthcoming Q4 will probably tackle the X2 more directly, while the Q2 slots into a lower price and power bracket. Yet there are plenty of crossover options at the X2’s price point, including BMW's own X3, so without further ado, let’s see what else you could get for similar money: <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 