The South Coast is one of the destinations that travellers like to escape to when Durban gets a little too crowded. South Coast is a mere hour or two away from Durban.  Travellers can  make their way through the N2 from Durban and drive through the stunning seaside resorts and towns of Illovo Beach, Port Shepstone, Shelly Beach, Uvongo, Margate, Ramsgate, Southbroom and down towards Port Edward. IOL Travel spoke to Avukile Mabombo, the Group Marketing Manager of Protea Hotels by Marriott and African Pride Hotels, who shares some of his favourite spots in the town. Places to stay Just 20 minutes south of Durban, Protea Hotel by Marriott Karridene Beach has all the facilities to start your holiday right. With mini-golf, squash courts, a kiddies play-park, billiards, trampolines, table tennis and three swimming pools, not to mention its proximity to Illovo beach, it is the perfect spot for family fun. Casa al Mare self-catering flatlets in Ramsgate offer great sea views in a quiet location, just a km away from the hustle and bustle of busy Margate. The complex also has a swimming pool and lapa area for guests. Goblins self-catering cottages in Port Edward is located on the Umtavuna River, and considered “the last stop on the South Coast”. Here you are surrounded by the Umtavuna Nature Reserve, as well as banana plantations and sugarcane farms – and just a short drive away from Port Edward beach. 
 
Where to eat The Waffle House in Ramsgate was established in 1957 and has consistently served the most interesting selection of sweet and savoury waffles you will find on South African shores. Expect breakfast waffles with sautéed mushrooms and scrambled egg, bacon and maple syrup, or simply hot waffles with melted butter and homemade preserves. Savoury waffle toppings include chicken a la king, and bobotie. Dessert toppings include macadamia nuts, chocolate mousse or lemon meringue waffles. Casa Toscana (literally meaning Tuscan Home) opened in 2007 and over a decade has cemented their reputation as the South Coast’s “venue of choice for Italian dining with a Tuscan flair”. Fish on the River sits right on the banks of the Mzimkhulu River in Port Shepstone. Serving up a wide variety of seafood, as well as classic grilled or fried fish or calamari with good old slap chips, the restaurant offers the ultimate lunch with a view at bargain prices. Attractions The Rotary Club of Hibiscus Coast’s craft and flea market in Uvongo runs on weekend, with around 160 stalls selling fresh produce, clothing, toys and games, second-hand items and handmade crafts. Marina Beach, between Southbroom and San Lameer on the Hibiscus Coast of KwaZulu-Natal, is dubbed “the Honolulu of the South Coast” owing to its soft white sand, clear tidal pool, and excellent facilities.