CAPE TOWN - With the ANC’s 54th national conference on our doorstep, we take a look at the important facts you need to know about Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. FACT SHEET: Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma TIED TO STEVE BIKO: The former African Union chair's leadership can be traced back to student organisations. In the 1970's she became the vice-president of the South African Student Organisation (SASO) under leadership of the Black Consciousness activist, Steve Biko. Dlamini-Zuma's advocacy of black consciousness and her work at SASO had caused some concern from certain people within the white business community.  WILLING TO FIGHT: While she was minister of health she was commitment to the comprehensive anti -tobacco legislation; the fight against HIV/AIDS and the campaign for accessible and affordable medicines for the poor. This saw her lock horns with a number of powerful pharmaceutical companies. FISCAL LEADERSHIP: Between 2009 and 2012, she was Minister for the Department of Home Affairs. She has been praised for her work in the department and for helping it achieve a clean audit, something it was unable to achieve in 16 years.  BELIEVES IN RET:  Dlamini-Zuma is a key supporter of the Radical Economic Transformation policy. She has stated that RET will help restore dignity and economic stability to disadvantaged South Africans. The three areas she hopes to focus on includes the transformation of the economy, investing in people; and building a democratic developmental state. PARTNERSHIP: Dlamini-Zuma believes in the need for an "economic Codesa," in that she wants to create a partnership between labour, business and government.  POLICIES: Dlamini-Zuma’s policies have been criticised by certain academics for being "similar" to Ramaphosa’s ‘New Deal’. There is a fear that South Africa's markets will see Dlamini-Zuma's policies as a risk will be executed in a populist manner. READ ALSO: ANC succession puzzle FACT SHEET: Cyril Ramaphosa BUSINESS LEADER: Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, South African politician, businessman, activist, and trade union leader has served as the Deputy President under President Jacob Zuma since 2014. Ramaphosa was involved in several business ventures. These include the Shanduka Group, The Bidvest Group, MTN, and Mondi. TIED TO THE WORKER: After completing his law degree, Ramaphosa joined the National Council of Trade Unions (NCTU) as a legal advisor. He later helped form the National Union of Mineworkers Union (NUM).  LOCATION: He invests in property and reportedly owns 30 properties in Johannesburg and two apartments in Cape Town.   ETHICS: In 2012, after the general election, Ramaphosa announced that he was going to dis-invest from Shanduka to avoid conflict of interest as Deputy President. He made several strategic decisions to exit company partnerships. Ramaphosa existed Lonmin mine in 2013 after being criticised for his involvement and subsequent handling of what has come to be known as the Marikana massacre.  THE BILLIONAIRE: Ramaphosa is one of South Africa’s richest men and is estimated to be worth R6.5 billion.  HIS NEW DEAL: His economic vision, a ‘New Deal’ was launched in November in Soweto. His vision includes ambitious promises to deal with high unemployment and rising poverty by: • A Youth Employment Service programme by government and business to provide a million paid internships to unemployed young people within three years; • To grow gross domestic product by 3% in 2018 (the World Bank forecasts growth of 1.1%) • Land redistribution will be accelerated in combination with systems to improve land productivity and support for new farming activity.  - In the short term, Ramaphosa’s anticipated victory as president would provide a short-term confidence boost, according to a number of economists.  - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 