CAPE TOWN – Five years after he left the University of Pretoria side, Aubrey Ngoma has signed what is believed to be a multi-million rand deal with Tshwane giants Mamelodi Sundowns. Ngoma's move was confirmed on Friday, with one report claiming the Brazilians had dished out as much as R8 million for the 28-year-old. According to a statement released by City, the deal came with 'an astronomical transfer fee'. Masandawana confirmed the acquisition on their Twitter page:  Sundowns boss Pitso Mosimane will be thrilled to have the player on board, having tried unsuccessfully, and much to the anger of City boss John Comitis, to sign the former AmaTuks, Orlando Pirates and Mpumalanga Black Aces forward before the start of this season. Comitis admitted earlier this week though that he knew of Ngoma’s desire to play for the 2016 African champions, while City's statement on his release also mentioned that the player wanted to move closer to his home in Gauteng. Ngoma has only just returned to action after a knee injury kept him out for the first four months of the season. In the previous campaign, he was inspirational in terms of assists and goal-scoring and together with the also-departed Lebogang Manyama, played a major part in the Citizens' very successful first season in the top flight. The diminutive left-footer is a similar sort of player to both Khama Billiat and Percy Tau, although it's been speculated that Billiat could be leaving. Meanwhile, in what City say was a separate piece of business, they announced on Friday morning the signing of central defender Kwanda Mngonyama. The 24-year-old had been out on loan at Maritzburg United for three seasons, before being frozen out of the Sundowns team on his return to Chloorkop. He's joined the Cape side for an 'undisclosed fee' and has been warmly welcomed on board by Citizens head coach Benni McCarthy. "When I heard there was a chance for City to land Kwanda I was instantly excited," he said. "Mngonyama is a soldier and probably one of the most promising defensive talents to come out of SA in a long time. Seeing where the club is going, building for the future, this was a key acquisition for us. I can't wait to start working with the young man and get him to where he should be." There has also been talk that Cape Town City's influential skipper Robin Johannes is to sign for struggling champions Bidvest Wits, which would make Mngonyama's arrival even more important. In other PSL transfer news on Friday, several reports have stated that Polokwane City have cut a deal with Zimbabwean giants Caps United for their highly-rated striker Dominic Chungwa, who with 17 goals was the league's top scorer last season. SuperSport United meanwhile have been linked to one of Kenya's top marksmen, Masoud Juma, who was the Kenyan Premier League's Golden Boot winner in 2017, scoring 17 times for newly-promoted Kariobangi Sharks. African News Agency (ANA)   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 