Orlando Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza has explained why they loaned out fan favourite Thabo “Jomo” Rakhale to Chippa United. Pirates released a statement on Thursday confirming that they have signed Diamond Thapola and Phetso Maphanga from Chippa United and Rakhale will head in to the opposite direction. Independent Media exclusively spoke with Khoza about the exit of Rakhale which came as a surprise to football fans in South Africa. “Football is not about how many tricks you did but it is about goals scored and goals created. Rakhale holds the ball for so long while the likes of (Thamsanqa) Gabuza are making runs in the box. “You need to take on players like Thabo Qalinge and Luvuyo Memela do. I think Chippa United’s style of play will suite Rakhale. We gave him the chance,” Khoza explained. Rakhale joined Pirates in 2013 from Sivutsa Stars but was loaned back to Sivutsa. The following season he was loaned to Polokwane City and then returned to Pirates. “It is not the end of him at Pirates. He is on loan at Chippa which means we can bring him back if he does well,” Khoza elaborated. At Chippa, Rakhale will reunite with Teboho Moloi, who is delighted to work with Rakhale agian. “I know how to get the best out of Jomo. I have a good relationship with him. I’ve known him for a long time, since his days with Sivutsa. He is a very good footballer. You don’t need to give him a lot of instructions. You just have to give him freedom and guide him,” Moloi said. Pirates’ No 1 fan Mama-Joy was left disappointed by the club’s decision to release Rakhale. “Rakhale and Thabo Qalinge are like my boys. “They play with passion and they bring what we love. They entertain us. We enjoy their style of play. I won’t lie, I’m disappointed but there’s nothing I can do. We really enjoyed his displays,” Mama-Joy stated. Rakhale has struggled for game time this season under Micho Sredojevic. * Meanwhile, Mamelodi Sundowns star player Khama Billiat wants to leave the club as soon as January. This was confirmed by his agent Siyabulela Loyilane yesterday when he spoke to Indpendent Media. Billiat’s current contract with Sundowns will expire in June. Next month he will have the right to sign the pre-contract with the team of his choice. “We are hopefully that Khama will get the new club in this window. “He is not going to renew. We do have offers including local offers but I don’t want to comment about the names of the clubs that are after his services,” Loyilane explained. Egyptian giants Al Ahly and Zamalek are amongst the teams that are biding for Billiat. Al Nasir of Saudi Arabia is also in the mix. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane is still adamant though that they can still get Billiat to change his mind, though he admitted it will be difficult. @Minenhlecr7  Pretoria News  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 