JOHANNESBURG – The highly anticipated annual Raging Bull Awards promises to be the best to date. The award evening and a new event, a preceding investment summit, will held on January 31, 2018 and will be followed by a networking golf day on February 1 ,2018. The first Raging Bull Awards ceremony, which was held in 1997, saw top asset fund managers performers celebrated as the most consistent industry performers. The current annual Raging Bull investment summit and award event both serve as a platform to provide the Financial and Investment Services industry with an opportunity to honor leaders of the collective South African investment industry. The summit will serve as a platform to provide the financial services and investment industry with an opportunity to debate and converse about transformation within the industry and taking the narrative into the future for generations of South Africans from all persuasions to benefit from this industry. The summit is also a platform where stakeholders will be prompted to engage in a strategic dialogue at the right time with the right people. The summit will comprise a keynote speaker and two panel discussions in the morning, a finger lunch, and a panel discussion in the afternoon. The speakers at the 2018 Raging Bull Summit will include former Minister of Finance Nhlanhla Nene, Small Business Development Institute Chief Xolani Qubeka, and Empowerdex general manager Nomzamo Xaba. There will be panel discussions on investing in BRICS, radical economic transformation as well as the affects of current and future regulation on the investment industry. The awards, which celebrate the top performers across a range of sectors and acknowledges investment managers best risk-adjusted performers and the best unit trust management companies, will be hosted in Cape Town at The Avenue, Dock Road, V&A Waterfront. A total of eight awards will be presented to the top-performing funds in the unit trust sectors that attract the most money from investors; these funds include foreign-domiciled funds that have been approved by the Financial Services Board. 
Date 31st Jan 2018 Raging Bull Investment Summit 8.30am to 15.30pm
Date 31st Jan 2018 Raging Bull Awards 18.30pm to 23:00pm
Date 1st Feb 2018 Raging Bull Golf Day Venues: Investment Summit & Awards - The Avenue, Dock Road, V&A Waterfront, 8001.
Golf day, Rondebosch Golf Course Costs:
Summit - R2 000 per person (includes tea, coffee and lunch). 
Awards R990 per person, or R9 500 per table
Summit & Golf package - R2 250 per person 
Summit & Awards package - R2 600 per person
Awards & Golf package - R1 400 per person For bookings visit: www.ragingbullawards.co.za
For any queries, contact:ragingbull@inl.co.za - PERSONAL FINANCE ONLINE 