Mogwase - Forum 4 Service Delivery (F4SD) councillor Napoleon Webster accused of murder had his bail conditions relaxed at the North West High Court on Friday. Webster applied to the court that he should no longer be required to the Marikana police station as none of his co-accused were reporting at the police station any more. North West Judge president Monica Leeuw granted the application. In September, his attorney Lindokhuhle Mdabe, asked the Rustenburg court to relax his bail condition that he should report at the Marikana police station and not at the Meadowlands police station as ordered when he was granted R3 000 bail. Read more: Activist Napoleon Webster released from prison At the time he argued that Webster was appointed as a councillor in the Rustenburg and needed to be closer to his constituency in order to fulfil his responsibility as a councillor. Webster appealed to the high court after the he was denied bail in the Rustenburg Magistrate's Court.  Outside court Webster said he was relieved that his bail conditions were relaxed and that he would now be able to attend to all activities he was involved in. "The bail conditions has been relaxed by the high court and that I will be able to have free movement... honesty this bail conditions had been killing me emotionally," he said. Webster and 13 others are accused of the murder of SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) member Sabata Petros Chale, 39. The State alleges that Aubrey Seitsang, Sibonile Sobopha, Mdlondozi Fundiwo, Herbert Baqhesi, Webster, William Nyenyane, Aphindile Pungone, Samson Gqwetani, Gift Luveli, Nkululeko Msithwa, Nkosindiphile Nziyose, Luvo Soyizwaphi, Sivuyile Qasha and Mzolisi Mbulana hacked Chale to death in Marikana West near Rustenburrg in North West, on December 8, 2016. They allegedly drank his blood after hacking him. He was allegedly killed over a dispute over the allocation of low cost (RDP) houses in Marikana Extension 2.  Their case was postponed to February 19, for trial. Seitsang, Sobopha, Fundiwo, Baqhesi and Nyanyane were denied bail and were remanded in custody. Pungone was granted bail of R2000 and the others were released on R5000 bail, their bail was extended until their trial date in February.  African News Agency