CAPE TOWN – Lehlohonolo Majoro's switch to Bidvest Wits and Golden Arrows' capture of Danny Venter are the latest confirmed PSL transfers. The PSL transfer window officially runs for the month of January, but several clubs have been busy making squad additions ahead of the new year. The first major transfer saw Leonardo Castro leaving Mamelodi Sundowns for Kaizer Chiefs two weekends ago and Amakhosi coach Steve Komphela will be hoping that the Colombian is the answer to his side's struggles in front of goal this season. Soweto rivals Orlando Pirates then followed that up with the acquisition of two defenders from Chippa United in Diamond Thopola and Phetso Mphanga, with winger Thabo Rakhale going the other way. The news of Majoro's release from Cape Town City was announced by the Citizens on Wednesday morning, with Wits confirming his signing a few of hours later. "Bidvest Wits is pleased to announce the signing of Lehlohonolo Majoro with effect from 1 January 2018. Welcome to the Clever Boys family." With just seven league goals in 14 matches this season, the 31-year-old Majoro's arrival will bring more firepower to the under-performing Students. Venter meanwhile ended a six-season stay with Free State Stars when the playmaking midfielder joined Golden Arrows, also on Wednesday. "We would like to announce that we have secured the services of Danny Venter," the Durban club tweeted. Mamelodi Sundowns are also expected to be doing some major transfer business as head coach Pitso Mosimane boosts his squad for the 2018 CAF Champions League. The Tshwane club has been strongly linked with SuperSport United striker Jeremy Brockie, although latest reports have indicated that Pirates are also keen on the New Zealand forward. Mosimane also continues to be linked for a move for Cape Town City winger Aubrey Ngoma, although the Mother City club are not keen to lose their main talisman. Platinum Stars boss Roger de Sa faces a challenge to hold onto one of this season's most exciting emerging talents, Katlego Otladisa, with a media report claiming Pirates and Sundowns are interested in the flying winger. De Sa is also keen to go to the market to make some squad reinforcements to help Stars beat the drop. Ajax Cape Town meanwhile snapped up Highlands Park striker Muzi Thabotha in the middle of December and are reportedly trying to sign Zesco United and Kenyan international marksman Jesse Were, while the Urban Warriors are also said to be scouring the Zimbabwean market for reinforcements. The transfer window will shut on Wednesday, January 31, at midnight. African News Agency (ANA)   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 