CAPE TOWN - Nokia has selected MTN Nigeria to drive transformation from network-to customer-centric operations in an endavour to improve the region's customer experience.  A statement issued on behalf of Nokia reveals that, "Nokia's Customer Experience Management (CEM) solutions deliver automation and intelligence to help service providers operate more efficiently and seize new business opportunities, while ensuring subscribers receive the maximum benefit from their services". Nokia Cognitive Analytics for Customer Insight and Nokia Service Quality Manager (SQM) are two components to be employed by MTN to increase efficiencies and optimise subscriber services. Nokia Cognitive Analytics for Customer Insight software provides a complete view of customer satisfaction, revenue, and device and network performance, while Nokia Service Quality Manager provides a holistic view of service behaviour and performance. The concurrent use of Nokia software and services will enable a speedy identification of service issues, like poor voice call and data session quality, the statement reads. ALSO READ: Nokia 3 is now available in South Africa 
Nokia's Account Leader for MTN Group, Naveed Kashif said, "MTN recognises the growing importance of customer experience management as it seeks to differentiate itself and provide the best possible services to subscribers. Nokia provides software technologies and world-class expertise to help service providers take full advantage of the latest advances in automation and intelligence, and we are delighted to help MTN in its journey to build a more agile, customer-centric business." Hassan ElChami, Chief Technology Officer at MTN Nigeria, said they were perplexed by Nokia's CEM solution. "We are confident that the partnership with Nokia will be invaluable in our ongoing effort to find new and more innovative ways to deliver superior experiences for our customers." He concluded.  MTN notes Nokia's extensive proven track record in helping service providers on transition to customer-centric operations. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE