Hundreds of people, including celebrities and city officials, spent their Thursday morning at the Beverly Hills Hotel for the launch of the Discover Durban campaign. Discover Durban, a Durban Tourism campaign,  will focus on some of the city’s key attractions, while still trying to address the demand for new travellers. The new marketing campaign also coincides with Durban Tourism’s 3 year strategic global partnership with Discovery.  The network is viewed across 220 countries and territories worldwide and has a 3 billion subscription base. 
With views of the Indian ocean and summer cocktails on offer, the event showcased what visitors can experience when they visit Durban in summer. Crafters and artists showcased some of their African inspired beadwork.
Senior marketing and communications manager, Sbu Zondi, said the campaign was created to focus on new travellers, enhance business strategies and digitally position Durban. Durban was named top 52 destinations to visit in 2018 by Fodor’s Travel last week. 
“We want travellers to experience the best of what Durban has to offer. We want them to enjoy their time here and even extend their stay,” he said. 
He said the city hopes to strengthen global awareness and cultivate strategic travel trade relationships through this marketing campaign. Strategic partnerships and tourism ambassadors like the Sharks rugby, Ladysmith Black Mambazo and Golden Arrows will come on board to endorse the campaign. The director: brand partnerships and innovation for Discovery Network International, Sureka Abbas, said they were excited to collaborate with Durban. 
She announced the Young Durban Filmmaker of the Year, a competition that will allow local youth a chance to showcase their filmmaking talent and Durban’s beauty at the same time. The winning filmmaker will have their work aired on the Discovery channel. 
“Everyone knows Durban, but there is a lot more they want to see. We are proud to be taking Durban to the world  and bringing the world to Durban. 
“The filmmaking project will help inspire youth in a meaningful way, something that Mayor Zandile Gumede is very passionate about,” she said. 
The summer season officially starts today (December 1) and ends in February 2018. According to eThekwini Municipality, around 1.3 million visitors will visit Durban.