CAPE TOWN - JP Duminy is a very busy man. Not only is the 33-year-old captain of the Cape Cobras a doting husband and father, but he’s also a very active 
philanthropist. It is the latter activity which will have his attention this Sunday when the JP21 Super Eights event gets under way at the Val de Vie Polo Estate. The JP21 Project is in its fourth year, and continues to do sterling work in the Mitchells Plain and 
Strandfontein areas where it has revived the spirit of cricket in the area through the provision of an outlet for children to be active and healthy. “Yeah it does have its challenges, but fortunately I have the right people in my team along with me whom I can trust,” Duminy told Independent Media. “It is important that your people have the same vision as you, and I can see that in the hard work that goes in everyday which allows me to focus on the cricket side of things when I need to." Initiatives such as the JP21 Project are desperately needed in these areas, and while the dream is for the young cricketers to follow in Duminy’s footsteps and go on to play for the Cobras or the Proteas, the holistic picture is far greater.    “We have 36 out of the 54 schools playing in the Mitchells Plain/Strandfontein area. We would love all 54 schools to be playing cricket,” Duminy said. “We also have a bursary programme that allows our more talented 
cricketers to continue at high schools outside the areas, but what about the rest? We need to find a way to continue the programme at high school for all the learners while also spreading it to further areas. “That can only, though, be achieved through fundraisers such as these for it requires more staff, more coaches, more facilities and more structures.” A project of such magnitude certainly requires assistance and Duminy has called on his Proteas teammates AB de Villiers, Faf du Plessis and Morne Morkel. The trio will captain “celebrity” teams on the day that also includes local artists Chad Saaiman and Blake Williams too. “It is not easy getting everyone at the same place all on the same day with everyone’s hectic schedules, but once the date was agreed upon everyone bought into the concept,” Duminy said. “It is going to be great day out for the family. There will be lots of entertainment along with some great cricket. It is an idea that was brought to us which is quite unique here in Cape Town and let’s hope it is all a big success so that it becomes part of the annual calendar in the Mother City.” Cape Times   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 