Ghazal is a common and popular form of music in India and Pakistan. Its roots trace back to classical Arabic poetry. This genre has proven to be capable of an extraordinary variety of expression around its central themes of love, separation, madness and mystical reflection. This Sunday, for the first time on South African soil, three legends of this art form will be performing. Featuring Pankaj Udhas, Anup Jalota and Talat Aziz, this is a not-to-be-missed concert for anyone who loves classical Indian music. The velvet-voiced Udhas, whose career spans three decades, has enthralled music lovers the world over with his soulful music and poetry.  He has lent his voice to several popular songs for Hindi films and has also produced a talent search show for Sony TV. Despite his success on the international stage, he remains humble and is actively involved in charity and social work for the likes of the Cancer Patients’ Aid Association. “Our music is a rare combination of traditional poetry woven into a unique musical ensemble which will be loved by all ghazal aficionados,” says Pankaj Udhas. Jalota, a sought-after performer, renders bhajan, ghazal, geet and film songs with equal grace and finesse. He set a world record by receiving more than 100 gold, platinum and multi-platinum discs. He has recorded more than 200 albums and has performed in more than 5000 live concerts. “People will always love ghazals and we are excited to be bringing our music to the beautiful country of South Africa,” he said. Growing up in a family who loved the fine arts, Aziz was always surrounded by famous artists and poets. His first major performance was in front of a crowd of 5 000 people. Aziz was the first ghazal artist to release a ghazal single online last year.  His soulful voice renders itself beautifully to a ghazal. “The romantic soulful ghazal embodies unrequited love and expressions of bitter-sweet love.  Audiences are guaranteed to have a sense of nostalgia and yearning with our selection of songs,” he said. - Tonight Reporter  Legends of Ghazal takes place at the Centre Court at Emperors Palace in Kempton Park on Sunday, December 3. Tickets are R150 and are available through Computicket.