CAPE TOWN - The City of Cape Town is confident that 2017's Cape Town Summer Market will build on successes of the previous year. The city has announced the market will take place over a seven-day period from 17 - 23 December. It will be open to the public between 17:00 and 23:00 on each day. This year the market will be more than just selling trinkets, but promote the culture of entrepreneurship and creativity, while featuring the zones set up which proved to be popular last year: play zone, kids zone, sports zone and music zone, the city said in a statement. More than 100 vendors are expected to have a variety of products on offer. "The stalls will be set up along the Government Avenue and this will give shoppers the opportunity to look for that last-minute, special gifts," the city said. The city’s mayoral committee member for area north, councillor Suzette Little said that the product mix will cater for a range of price options, while maintaining high quality levels.  "The point of the Cape Town Summer Market is to create a good business environment for traders by attracting customers, while at the same time ensuring that the market is fun for all ages," she added. ALSO READ: 5 Markets to visit in Cape Town 
A new addition to the summer market is a local talent competition designed to make the market memorable and get the crowds involved.  This competition will see a local unknown talent walk away with  R25 000 in prizes, including an opportunity to experience a studio recording with an experienced recording artist.  The city’s mayoral committee member for safety and security, Alderman Smith added, "Over the years we have tried and tested various options for the summer market and I believe we have come up with a winning formula. ALSO READ: WATCH: Century City Summer Night Market back again It is understood that the 2016’s market saw more than 93 000 people who visited. "This is a call to families to come out and enjoy some quality time together in a relaxed atmosphere. All indications are that the Cape Town Summer Market 2017 will be a memorable one," concluded Smith. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE