Rustenburg - At least seven people were shot and wounded after security guards allegedly fired rubber bullets and live ammunition at them at a residential estate in Rustenburg on Tuesday. Residents at Waterkloof Hills Estate also known as Nkandla alleged the Royal Bafokeng Platinum mine's security guards opened fire on them while they were singing at the estate at around 3am, protesting against their dismissal at the mine. Spokesperson Tlhalefang Mpete said the Rustenburg municipality disconnected electricity on December 15, due to non payment of water, electricity was later reconnected after the misunderstanding was resolved. "The concern to stop the disconnections was that there are water deductions in our salaries. This means our company should be sending the money to the municipality. Even so, we didn't know that we owed money to the municipality, we were never told," he said. On Monday, more than 30 residents were dismissal for participating in an illegal strike on December 15. He said the dismissal letters came as a shock because what happened on December 15, had nothing to do with their work at the mine. "Their letters state there were disruptions on Friday, which were not." Royal Bafokeng Platinum spokesperson Mpueleng Pooe said, there was structure at the estate through which water and other service at the estate could be discussed. "I believe that there has been ongoing discussions on this including a discussion which has been taking place today [Tuesday]," he said. "In so far as dismissals of some employees and the reasons for such dismissals and all other processes relating to such dismissals are concerned, such dismissals are employer and employee matters which we do not discuss over the media. Employees have channels through which they can challenge such dismissals if they believe they were treated unfairly. "In so far as the alleged shooting with live bullets is concerned, I do not believe this could have been the case and await a report from our mine security as to why transpired." North West police said cases of public violence and attempted murder were registered at the Rustenburg police station for investigation. "This is after security officials allegedly fired rubber bullets to protesting residents of a residential complex in Rustenburg. Residents allegedly blocked the road in the early hours of today and impeded the buses from leaving the complex to take workers to Rasimone Mine. No arrests have been effected and investigation into the matter continues," said Brigadier Sabata Mokgwabone. African News Agency/ANA