First T20I South Africa: 185/6 (Amla 62, Du Plessis 36, Boult 2/8)  CAPE TOWN - Hashim Amla provided the early fireworks to propel South Africa to a "par total" in the first T20I against New Zealand at Eden Park.  Amla put the early loss of his opening partner Quinton de Kock for a duck behind him and played especially freely in the opening powerplay overs. Amla was particularly harsh on left-arm swing bowler Ben Wheeler.  Two consecutive boundaries in the second over of the innings – a flick through backward square-leg and forceful cut shot – set Amla on his way before really targeting the young seamer when he returned a couple of overs later from the other end.  Amla went hard at anything outside the off stump and flashed hard at a length delivery that flew between the wicket-keeper and a wide first slip for a rasping four. It was the beginning of a nightmare over for Wheeler as the next three deliveries were also despatched as Amla helped himself to four consecutive boundaries to take 17 runs off the over.  The innings had been lit and South Africa raced to 56/1 at the conclusion of the powerplay overs with captain Faf du Plessis playing his role too as another 14 runs were added in the sixth over.  The key to any good partnership is the understanding the pair out in the middle share. Realising Amla was not as comfortable when pace was taken off the ball and the field was set back after the restrictions, Du Plessis took over the role of aggressor against the left-arm spin of Mitchell Satner.  The skipper targeted Eden Park’s uniquely short straight boundaries and lofted Satner over long-on for two sixes in one over. It was not the sweetest of strikes, but the balls still sailed into the crowd.  The rapid 87-run partnership for the second wicket between Du Plessis and Amla was, though, brought to an end when the former missed a full toss attempting a lap sweep off the bowling of medium pacer Colin de Grandhomme. New Zealand were particularly happy with the dismissal for Satner had dropped the South African captain the over before.  Amla followed shortly after Du Plessis, but not before he struck Colin Munro for a boundary and straight six to register his sixth T20I half-century.  South Africa tried to maintain the momentum through their innings with cameos from AB de Villiers (26 off 17 balls, 3x4, 1x6) and JP Duminy (29 off 16 balls, 2x4, 2x6) but it was the hugely-impressive Trent Boult that counter-attacked for the hosts.  The left-arm seamer was incredible on the night as he conceded just eight runs his allotted four overs and picked up the wickets of De Kock and Farhaan Behardien.  Duminy, though, was happy with South Africa’s target and said at the change of innings: “It was a pretty good wicket, there was good bounce. Our score is about par. We would have liked more considering the platform we had, but now it comes down to execution. We have to bowl well. As in any T20 game you have to strike upfront.” Independent Media     