  The Stellenbosch Wine Routes organisation has again been singled out from its peers in leading wine regions of the world.  Having claimed titles in 2014 and 2015, Stellenbosch Wine Routes was again named winner of the category for Best Promotional Body in the competition organised by the respected journal, Drinks International.  The award recognises Stellenbosch Wine Routes for its commitment and excellence. The judges paid particular attention to consumer-facing initiatives that entice visitors to the region.  The championship seeks to recognise innovation and excellence while the categories reflect the strategy, proposition, investment and creativity required to turn a region into an attractive long-term tourist attraction.  “The achievement is as significant for Stellenbosch as it will be for the wider South African wine tourism industry. The Stellenbosch Wine Routes network itself represents more than 200 wine and grape producers in the boundaries of the Stellenbosch Wine of Origin classification,” shares Stellenbosch Wine Routes Manager Elmarie Rabe.  A cornerstone attraction to millions of tourists every year, Stellenbosch has made its influence felt in the numerous fields including history, culture, natural beauty, sport and education around the globe. As for a premium wine offering, Stellenbosch has had one of the longest associations with viniculture in the country. When it launched the wine route in 1971, it was the first in the country to establish such an organised network. The Stellenbosch Wine Routes now include five sub-routes that each have their own characteristics in terms of prominent wine styles, climates and geographical location.  As part of the Cape Winelands, the Stellenbosch Wine Routes are part of the six most popular tourist attractions in South Africa and are also connected to the global Great Wine Capitals Network.  Established in 1972, Drinks International is among the world’s most authoritative publications devoted exclusively to global spirits, wines and beers. It is the entity behind several prominent events including the International Spirits Challenge, a global blind-tasting competition that has consistently seen South African brands feature. Returning for the sixth year, the Drinks International Wine Tourism Challenge is open to all involved in wine tourism, including generic bodies, major producers and individual vineyards.   For more information on the Stellenbosch Wine Routes visit www.wineroute.co.za  or contact them on Tel: 021 886 8275