Washington - Let's tackle a perplexing word problem. Two
clerks have the same job. Clerk A earns $194 341 a year. Clerk B earns $175 392 a
year. Clerk A has been doing the job for nearly six years. Clerk B has been
doing the job for 27 years. To arrive at X, factor in the head-shaking disparity
between the two salaries, allowing for experience. If you got X = gender - bing-bing-bing - you're a winner! The high-earning Clerk A is G. Paul Nardo, a man who has
been the clerk of Virginia's House of Delegates since 2011. The lower-paid
Clerk B is Susan Clarke Schaar, who has been working for Virginia's Senate
clerk office since 1974. She took over the head job in 1990. Same jobs, wildly different résumés, a salary gap of
nearly $20 000. There it is, folks. The insane arithmetic that nearly
always calculates a woman's worth in the workplace as less than a man's. It is
also one of the reasons that millions of men and women in the United States and
across the globe marched last month. Nardo and Schaar are public employees with public
salaries, and the transparency of that sector should make pay disparity pretty
minimal. But this glaring inequity made news in the Richmond
Times-Dispatch after state Sen. Thomas Norment Jr., R-James City, introduced a
budget amendment to raise Schaar's salary to equal Nardo's. Schaar said she didn't want to comment on how the
discrepancy came to light. Read also: SA to pay price for gender inequality But the truth is that for every Schaar, who will receive
equal pay only after an act of the state Senate and House of Delegates, there
are thousands of women who will never get that raise. "It's discouraging in 2017 to hear something like
that, but sadly not surprising that it's still going on," said Charly
Carter, executive director of the Maryland Working Families advocacy group. Some critics say this pay gap - which usually goes with
the statistic that women make 79 cents for every dollar a man makes - is
because women largely choose to work in low-paying fields such as teaching and
nursing. But Nardo and Schaar have the same job. And the disparity
still occurs when women take jobs in male-dominated fields, says Emily Martin,
who specializes in pay gap issues at the National Women's Law Centre. No correction Let's start in Alabama, where Karin Woodard was vice
president of information technology/management information systems at Medseek,
a digital-marketing company for the health-care sector. Her boss told her that
she was making less than the other vice presidents and that he would correct
that. But he never did. So Woodard kept working and getting great reviews before
she learned that lower-ranked managers and directors were paid more than she
was. Even a recent hire working for her made more than she did. When she
brought up her concerns, the chief operating officer said that women did not belong
in technical leadership, according to the lawsuit she filed against the company
last year. Or we can go to Connecticut, where Deborah Morse
complained that even though she was a top regional manager at the aerospace
manufacturer Pratt & Whitney, she earned thousands less than the men who
had the same title. When she asked about it, Morse's supervisors told her
that “‘girls’ who had husbands with jobs did not need to make as much money as
men since men were the primary earners in the family," according to the
District Court decision in 2013. Or we can check out Chicago, where Susan King was one of
the most successful sales executives at the food brokerage Acosta Sales and
Marketing but made less than the male executives at her rank. Some of the guys
she outperformed were paid two or even three times what she made, according to
the case filed in the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. In the 2012 opinion, right
after the chart showing King's $46 850 salary compared to a comparable male
colleague's $122 004 pay, the court wrote: "The difference between men and
women is striking." The court remanded the case back to District Court. Overtime Kathy Riser was 50 when she was working for QEP Energy in
Utah, managing a 250-vehicle fleet, managing facilities and earning about $47 000.
She logged more than 400 hours of overtime in 14 months, and it became clear
that she was really doing two jobs. So the company broke off her fleet
management duties and hired a 39-year-old man to take that part over. He walked
in the door at $62 000, according to the lawsuit she filed in 2015. When the
company tried to argue that it wasn't pay discrimination because those were two
different jobs, the 10th Circuit laughed and slapped that lawsuit right back
into play. Back here in Virginia, we can look at Ann Marie Reardon,
an assistant attorney general for the state who never even made it into the
salary range for her job title - between $70 000 and $90 000. She started at
$62,000 in 2010 and received $1,000 annual raises after glowing reviews. But in
her five years there, she never matched the salaries of her male colleagues
with similar experience and duties, according to the lawsuit filed last year
against Attorney General Mark Herring, D. Read also: Gender inequality drags women down All of the cases went to some stage of settlement, according
to court records. And none of the women stayed at their jobs. The companies fought the lawsuits, and in each case, a
judge denied most of their arguments. Pratt & Whitney did adjust Morse's
salary after doing a company audit that found gender pay gaps, but Morse
continued her legal claims for back pay. Acosta Sales, Medseek and the Virginia attorney general's
office argued that the pay gap was based on starting salaries and experience,
arguments that judges denied. These women have to slog through the court system - often
for years - to find resolution, often after being reprimanded at work for
agitating. "It really just goes to show that it's critical for
employers to be affirmatively looking at whether there are indefensible wage
gaps and how they are paying men and women with similar job titles,"
Martin said. "We have a lot of marching left to do." WASHINGTON POST