Subaru South Africa has confirmed that it’s bringing five new products to South Africa during the course of 2017. The launch frenzy will kick off with the all-new Impreza sedan during the second quarter, which will be followed by the new XV crossover, Levorg WRX wagon and updated WRX and STI sedans. Subaru Impreza After skipping a generation, the Impreza sedan is returning to South Africa in non-WRX form and the fifth generation model that we’ll be receiving towards the end of the second quarter appears to have grown up in every sense of the word. Built on Subaru’s brand new ‘Global Platform’ the four-door is powered by a new 115kW direct injection flat-four Boxer engine, sending power to all four wheels via Subaru’s renowned Symmetrical all-wheel drive system. Keeping with the technological times, the new Impreza will feature a 20.3cm touch-screen infotainment system complete with voice-controlled satnav, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto phone-pairing and various other online apps. Subaru’s ‘EyeSight’ driver assistance system will become available in the Impreza from the third quarter of 2017. The package of active safety features uses stereo colour-reading cameras and various software to warn you of impending collisions and brake for you if necessary while also offering lane departure and sway warning, reverse assistance and adaptive cruise control. All-new XV Crossover Closely based on the latest Impreza and set to make its debut at the Geneva Motor Show on March 7, the next-generation XV crossover will reach South African shores during the third quarter of this year. Although not much information has been released as yet, and the best picture we can offer you is the teaser sketch above, it’s a sure bet that the XV will mirror the Impreza in most respects. Expect it to offer the same 115kW 2-litre engine as well as the new 20.3cm touch-screen infotainment system. What Subaru SA has confirmed is that the XV will debut with the aforementioned EyeSight driver assistance systems and will be fitted with hill descent control to help it off the beaten track. Subaru Levorg The vehicle that many thought would remain a JDM dream is now coming to South Africa, although it won’t be based on the new Impreza. Essentially a wagon version of the WRX sedan, which still uses the previous Impreza’s platform, the Levorg is powered by a 2-litre direct injection Boxer four, rated at 197kW and 350Nm. South Africa will be getting the 2018-spec Levorg, which will feature freshened exterior and interior styling and improved suspension. Expect to see the Levorg on local shores during the third quarter. Subaru WRX and WRX STI facelifts Also due in the third quarter is the updated WRX (pictured above) and WRX STI (below). Though they’re still based on the previous Impreza, the two performers have been given a makeover with new grilles and bumpers upfront and redesigned alloy wheels. Furthermore, Subaru has tinkered with the suspension and steering, improved NVH levels and modernised the cabins with larger TFT screens. The same 197kW/350Nm 2-litre direct injection turbopetrol provides motivation, linked to either a six-speed manual or CVT gearbox. Likewise the STI retains its 221kW/407Nm 2.5-litre turbo motor, but gets beefed up brakes and a fully electronic limited-slip differential replaces the previous Driver Control Centre Differential. IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  