Tara Palmer-Tomkinson's ex-boyfriends have paid tribute to the star in the wake of her death. The 45-year-old socialite was found dead at her London home on Wednesday (08.02.17) and since the tragic news broke tributes have been flooding in for the British 'It Girl' Among those sharing their heartfelt feelings for Tara are two of her ex-boyfriends – singer-and-actor Duncan James and actor Sid Owen. Former Blue singer Duncan, 38, dated Tara between 2008 and 2009 but remained close friends with her after their split and was spotted having lunch with her in London's King's Road last year. Duncan took to Twitter to write: "Heartbroken and numb I have lost one of my oldest and dearest friends. I'm going to miss ur laughter the most shmooey. Rip sweetheart (sic)" He also changed his profile picture to a throwback snap of him hanging out with his beloved pal in celebration of their friendship. Duncan previously described his days spent with Tara as a "fun time filled with amazing stories". Meanwhile, former 'EastEnders' star Sid Owen described Tara, whom he dated in 1997, as a "beautiful woman". He tweeted: "Very sad and in shock to hear about the passing of Tara PT. A beautiful woman inside and out. Great fun and never a dull moment. RIPTPT (sic)," accompanied with a prayer emoji. Tara has been linked to a string of men throughout her life, including film producer Kris Thykier (1997), Duran Duran keyboardist Nick Rhodes (1999), musician Skinny (2000), multi-million property developer Anton Bilton (2001), Alexander Stars (2002), PR guru Jack Freud (2002), Matt Jolly (2002) who worked on 'Top of the Pops', Matalan heir Jamie Hargreaves (2004), singer James Blunt (2006) and European businessman Eduardo Teodorani-Fabbri (2009). Tara was always looking for her 'Mr. Right' and in a previous interview when asked what the one thing she most desired, she said: "The ultimate man who absolutely adores me and actually married me for no other reason than love. My initials may be TPT, but they could probably be ATM!" She added: "If I could find a hero like my father, and have a marriage like that, then that would be the man I desire. I don't think I'd get so anxious if I had a man on my side ... all the people who aren't anxious, they're probably told every night how beautiful they are." Following the discovery of her body, a police spokesperson confirmed they were called to a property in London and that her death is currently "being treated as unexplained". A statement said: "Police were called by London Ambulance Service at approximately 13:40hrs on Wednesday, 8 February to an address in Bramham Gardens, SW5. "A woman, aged in her 40s, was pronounced dead at the scene. Next of kin have been informed. The death is being treated as unexplained. At this early stage, police are not treating the death as suspicious. Enquiries into the circumstances are ongoing. The Coroner has been informed." Tara had revealed a year ago that she had a brain tumour and was convinced she had just "weeks to live" when doctors broke the news to her. BANG Showbiz