Cape Town - He’s a magician with muscles and a tan. She’s a Latin dancer with a mega-watt smile. Together Sixto and Lucia are one of the hottest new acts – and the hottest couple – of the Great Moscow Circus. The Cuban couple’s “Quick Change” magic act has to be seen to be believed (SEE VIDEO BELOW). They describe it as “an act about changing clothes in a magical way” but what they fail to say is that they change complete outfits in seconds, including from a swimming costume to an evening gown. Although there seems to be hundreds of acts like this out there, the pair say in 2010 they were the first to perform this kind of magic in Cuba. “It was innovative, a new field in Cuba, in magic,” says Lucia. They are now among the top 10 acts of this kind in the world and have won awards, even in Russia – reportedly the birthplace of the modern version of Quick Change magic. The couple made their debut with the Great Moscow Circus in Joburg last month and are in Cape Town with the circus from February 3 to 12. What makes their act stand out from the international Quick Change crowd, they say, is the Latin music and colourful costumes. Lucia says she guards her costumes with her life, even carrying it as hand luggage when travelling. But the ""magic"' of their act also has a lot to do with their chemistry as a couple. The pair have been together for seven years and have travelled the world together Since it’s the month of love, questions turned to what it’s like to be a couple living and working together in a circus that moves around the world. They have a home in Cuba but in the past three years they haven’t been there for more than three months. Does it get too much: The working together, living together travelling together? “We have a well-balanced relationship, says Lucia, "So, yes, we work together, but sometimes during the day we are not together. We have private and personal time. And that helps with the relationship.” “But,” Lucia is quick to add: “when we are separated for a period of time, we miss each other. We have a big connection.” How about time for romance? The pair say have celebrated each anniversary in a different part of the world. “We are very happy about that. It is magical and romantic,” says Lucia. Will they be celebrating Valentine’s Day. “Every day for us is St Valentine’s Day. We have little surprises every day but on Valentine’s Day we will have more surprises.” Sixto says the most incredible part of their time with the circus so far in South Africa has been the public reaction. “And the public reaction is due to our connection as a couple … it helps with show business. “We have very good memories of the public reaction in Joburg and we are expecting the same in Cape Town.” And does Lucia change her clothes as quickly for a night on the town? “As a dancer I was used to quick costume changes, but it wasn’t in a magical way like now,” she says. “But I am very fast. He takes longer.” * Catch the Great Moscow Circus in Cape Town from February 9 – 12. Book here. IOL 