 Robby Collins If you forget to buy your partner a gift for Valentine’s Day, what would you buy to make up for it? If she hasn’t broken up with me by then or blocked me on WhatsApp, I’ll probably just take her to dinner and let her order what she wants.  What was the worst thing that's happened to you on the day of romance? I bought a chocolate for a girl in high school. I was 14 years old. She was my first Valentine. I thought she was the most beautiful girl, but when I left school that day I saw her sharing my chocolate with some other dude.  John Vlismas If you could create the perfect Valentine’s Day, start to finish, what would it be? Wake up and allow my partner to bask in their self-actualised glory while never being distant from them. Having the willpower to be attentive and inquisitive throughout the morning until lunch time. Have an indulgent, decadent lunch that has no caloric impact on the human body, and then later some unicorn whispering as the sun sets on the ocean  If you forget to buy your partner a gift for Valentine’s Day, what would you buy to make up for it? Therapy - not sexy, but extravagant and useful.  Suzelle DIY Who would your ideal Valentine’s Day date be? Aladdin, so I can go on a magic carpet ride. Just stunning. What are your plans this year? I’m not sure but my dream would be to go on that big wheel at the Waterfront. #winkwinknudgenudge  Nina Hastie If you could create the perfect Valentine’s Day, start to finish, what would it be? I wake up and there's a limo outside to take me to the airport - all the paperwork, visas, everything is sorted, and I get put on a first-class flight to Italy. When I land I get taken to Portofino, where I’ll be sleeping on a yacht and watching opera as the sun sets.  Who would your ideal Valentine’s Day date be? Bill Murray. I love him.  Joey Rasdien What was the worst thing to happen to you on a Valentine’s Day? I only recently realised what the day was supposed to be and by that time it was too late. I am more of a Eid Day guy.  If you could create the perfect Valentine’s Day, start to finish, what would it be? I guess to wake up would be important. To have a Valentine would also be important. Roses would feature. To wake up in a boutique hotel or on a yacht on the coast of St Barths with a masseur on call and a cook to make breakfast before the massage would be cool.   Celeste Ntuli If you forget to buy your partner a gift for Valentine's Day, what would you buy to make up for it? The great thing about being a woman, we are a special gift to man!  If you could create the perfect Valentine’s Day, start to finish, what would it be? Breakfast on the beach. Dinner cooked by him, comedy and chill. Saturday Star