The Kimberley police confirmed that a case of attempted murder is being investigated. Miraculously, the baby, only a few hours old and still covered in blood and placenta, was found alive by the Cassandra resident and taken to the Kimberley Hospital at around 2pm Monday afternoon. The 19-year-old resident of Du Cane Street, in Cassandra, who wished to remain anonymous, said that she was inside her house when she heard “the cries of a baby” at around 1.30pm. After following the sound, she found a naked, newborn baby girl, who still had her umbilical cord attached, lying uncovered on the pavement across the road from her house. The teenager said she immediately picked up the child and ran back into the house and covered her with a blanket, before alerting authorities. According to ER24 spokesman, Russel Meiring, ER24 paramedics arrived on the scene and “the baby was immediately assessed and found to be just a few hours old”. “Paramedics also noticed that the umbilical cord had been torn and that the child was suffering from mild hypothermia. They immediately treated the child and gradually began to warm her. Once treated, she was transported to the Kimberley Hospital for urgent treatment. The incident was reported to the local authorities for further investigation,” Meiring said. Still visibly upset, and with her T-shirt covered in blood and afterbirth, the teenager said that the baby girl was obviously “left exactly where she was born” by the mother, who was nowhere to be found. “The baby had a very white skin and was not even covered or wearing a nappy,” the teenager said. Her mother, also a resident of Du Cane Street, condemned the “barbaric act” of a mother discarding her newborn baby “like a piece of trash”. “I want to know what will happen to that baby and what consequences the mother will face . . . if she is found,” the woman said. Both of them added that they did not know, nor noticed, a pregnant woman in the area. Police spokeswoman, Lieutenant-Colonel Dimakatso Mooi, on Monday confirmed that police were investigating a case of attempted murder following the discovery of the newborn baby in Cassandra. “The child is still alive and the Kimberley FCS is investigating a case of attempted murder. We request that anyone, who might have information about the incident, to contact Captain Kika at 082 469 0697,” Mooi said. Northern Cape Department of Health spokeswoman, Lulu Mxekezo, confirmed that the newborn baby was brought to the Kimberley Hospital on Monday. “The baby is currently being assessed after being admitted to hospital in a stable condition. The case has been reported to the Social Work Unit as well as the SAPS for further assistance,” Mxekezo said. “Family planning services are available at Primary Health Care facilities to prevent unwanted pregnancies. There are procedures available if a person does not want to keep her baby. These include counselling done for adoption and the termination of pregnancy before 12 weeks. “The department is also committed to promoting dual protection for women of childbearing age, namely contraceptives like birth control pills, injectables, implanon (device inserted dermally for as long as protection is needed), as well as both male and female condoms. “The contraceptives assist in family planning and condoms prevent transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV and Aids. These methods are all freely available at all our facilities and health personnel are always willing to discuss and recommend them for women. “Information sessions are conducted at health facilities and community structures to make sure that women are empowered about services available,” Mxekezo added. Diamond Fields Advertiser