Pretoria – The Bulls have named a star-studded side which includes seven Springboks in starting line-up to play against the Stormers at Newlands on Saturday. Springbok lock Lood de Jager will make his debut for the Bulls after moving to Pretoria from the Cheetahs and will be part of a formidable second row alongside RG Snyman. Former Springbok flank Jacques Potgieter will also make his first start for the Bulls since leaving them three years ago and will be part of a potent loose trio combination that includes Junior Springbok captain Hanro Lienberg and Nic de Jager at number six. Springbok prop Trevor Nyakane will start at tighthead prop after making the permanent move from loosehead in the off season and he will want to lay claim to the Springbok jumper with a solid performance against the Stormers. Handre Pollard will make his first Super Rugby appearance since 2015 after missing out on the whole of last year because of injury and he has also been tasked with leading the side in the absence of Adriaan Strauss. Jesse Kriel also swaps positions from outside centre back to fullback where he began his Super Rugby career two years ago and he will be part of a lethal back three with Springbok wing Jamba Ulengo and Travis Ismaiel. “It’s going to be war. This is what happens with this derby. We have to be up for it because that is what will be required of us if we want to win this game. We haven’t beaten them at Newlands since 2011 and we know how difficult a team they are to beat at home. We have to be at our best in every area of the field and make sure that we are better than them,” said Bulls coach Nollis Marais. Bulls: Jesse Kriel, Jamba Ulengo, Dries Swanepoel, Burger Odendaa, Travis Ismaiel , Handre Pollard, Rudy Paige, Hanro Liebenberg, Jacques Potgieter, Nick de Jager, RG Snyman, Lood de Jager, Trevor Nyakane, Jaco Visagie, Pierre Schoeman. Replacements: Edgar Marutlelle, Jacobie Adriaanse, Lizo Gqoboka, Jason Jenkins, Ruan Steenkamp, Piet van Zyl, Tian Schoeman, Warrick Gelant. Independent Media