A giant. Warrior. Legend. Laughing eyes. Fighter. Those were some of the tributes paid to Joost van der Westhuizen on Monday after he lost his battle with motor neuron disease. There has been an outpouring of well wishes on social media from the rugby and the wider sporting world, and beyond, for the former Springbok captain Van der Westhuizen, who passed away on Monday afternoon. The 45-year-old ex-scrumhalf was admitted to a Johannesburg hospital on Saturday morning, but after showing some progress over the weekend, he died at home on Monday. “Great memories with our dear friend and team mate, laughing eyes even in the face of adversity! #RIPJoost we miss you already,” said halfback teammate from the victorious 1995 World Cup side, Joel Stransky. The right wing in that team, James Small, posted: “#RIPJoost what an amazing life my brother!! Your kids can be so very proud!! U were a footprint.. not a foot note... RIP cuz” Minister of Sport and Recreation Fikile Mbalula said that “South Africa is poorer without Joost van der Westhiuzen, a giant & warrior of SA rugby. I send my sincere condolences to his family.” Breyton Paulse also praised his former Bok captain. “Was a pleasure sharing a dressing room with you, A warrior in every sense of the word, legend of the game, God Bless your fam, rus sag ou grote (rest in peace, legend).” Gary Teichmann, who took over the Bok captaincy from Francois Pienaar in 1996 and is now the Sharks chief executive, stated: “Joost was a great team man and was an outstanding ambassador for South African rugby. I will always cherish the memories we shared, both on and off the field. “Our sincere condolences are extended to the entire Van der Westhuizen family on the loss of a son, brother, husband and father.” Some of Van der Westhuizen’s opponents also remembered the Bok No 9 fondly. “Very sad news. Was one of the best I was lucky enough to play against and he fought so hard against this disease,” said former England captain Will Carling.   Ex-Ireland skipper Brian O’Driscoll said: “RIP Joost van der Westhuizen. An incredible player and fighter to the end. The first of the new age 9’s.” All Black flyhalf Dan Carter added: “He was one of the few non-All Black players I adored. Such sad news! #RIPJoost” Proteas ODI captain AB de Villiers said “You will be missed!”, while former batsman Herschelle Gibbs recalled some memorable times with Van der Westhuizen. “What a man what a player @9Joost !!! Boks best no9 and one of the all time greats to play the game. rip legend, we had some awesome times.” Ex-Proteas skipper Graeme Smith: “#RIPJoost my thoughts go out to his family, friends and the many people whose lives he impacted.” Former Bafana Bafana leader Lucas Radebe said “Sad news abt the passing of former springbok Joost Van Der Westhuizen”. The final word goes to Springbok lock Bakkies Botha, who tweeted: “R. I. P. JOOST NOW YOU ARE PAIN FREE. PEACE LEGEND.”  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed  Independent Media