Since the start of his career, Andile Phehlukwayo has been told that he could be South Africa’s “next Lance Klusener”. A lot of the hype has to do with the fact that the former Glenwood High prodigy is a Durban boy, bowls at a fair pace, and has the ability to slug a long ball left-handed. However, if the 20-year-old continues to play with ice running through his veins, and makes a habit of taking the Proteas over the line in tense run chases like his former Dolphins coach, he will surely be worthy of the billing. Not for the first time since making his international debut only six months ago has Phehlukwayo showed the temperament of a veteran. Last October the victims were Australia, when he shared a memorable partnership with David Miller to take the Proteas home at Kingsmead. On Sunday at Seddon Park, it was the turn of the Black Caps to be introduced to an emerging hero in the Proteas camp.   With his captain AB de Villiers by his side on this occasion, Phehlukwayo clubbed an unbeaten 29 off only 23 balls as part of a match-winning 51-run partnership with his skipper. The rookie all-rounder is certainly a disciple of the “Carpe Diem” or “Seize the Moment” mantra for with South Africa requiring nine runs to win off Tim Southee’s final four balls of the innings, Phehlukwayo leant back and smashed the Kiwi opening bowler for six over long-on. It was a shot that required great strength for the ball was not short or full enough for normal elevation, and only sailed over the boundary due to Phehlukwayo’s ability to create immense power from a standing position. “He was hitting it pretty sweet. It was very impressive the way Andile played. There is a lot of talent in that young man,” De Villiers enthused. “He was one of the very few guys tonight who could pick up the pace of the wicket, and he played it under his eyes. I was very impressed with him.” Phehlukwayo’s contribution was even of greater significance for the conditions were not the easiest for batting. After rain had delayed the start of the opening ODI by three hours, leading to the match being reduced to 34 overs, the pitch took appreciable turn and offered the seam bowlers assistance. “Experience-wise, it was 10 out of 10 to be put under pressure like that with the bat in hand. Conditions-wise? Zero out of 10,” De Villiers said. “I didn’t see the ball turn that much when we bowled. Early on with the new ball it wasn’t so bad, but it’s easy to say that now. It would have sounded like an excuse if we’d lost. I felt they were the toughest conditions I’ve ever played in.” Phehlukwayo’s heroics with the bat earned South Africa a record-equalling 12th ODI victory. It certainly shows that the team is on track with their ICC Champions Trophy preparations, with numerous team members contributing to the victories. Chris Morris had set the tone with a four-wicket burst at the start of the match before filtering away at the back-end, while Kagiso Rabada also chipped in with two wickets. Equally, the batting unit looks in top shape despite a mini-collapse that saw the Proteas lose five wickets for 39 runs during the middle period of the chase. Quinton de Kock (69 off 64 balls) responded after a rare duck in Friday night’s T20 with a half-century and set the platform for the late-evening pyrotechnics show. “We don’t play for those kinds of records, but it’s a nice one to have. We are very aware of it. We are only human and will lose one. That’s the nature of the beast,” De Villiers said. “So we’ll go to Christchurch (for the second ODI on Wednesday), hopefully play a good game and make it another one. “That was a great win for us. But there are lots of games left in the series, and we know it’s nowhere near done.”  zaahier.adams@inl.co.za  Independent Media