Sydney - Parts of Australia's farming
industry are rushing to recruit a new generation of tech-savvy
graduates as the sector swaps its bucolic past for a future of
drones, robots and automated sensors. The push comes as cutting-edge machinery is used to plug a
labour shortage on the nation's remote farms that threatens to
derail its ambitions to become Asia's food bowl. "For the first time in many years, we're finding it easier
to attract graduates because agriculture, particularly
technology in agriculture, is back on the radar," said Felicity
Hennessy, general manager of innovation at agribusiness Ruralco
. For years, potential recruits to Australian agriculture have
been turned off by the harsh image of traditional farming, but a
marked acceleration towards automation has piqued the interest
of young generations, with jobs available to do everything from
developing crop-protecting drones to crunching data on cattle
nutrition. "The proliferation of drones and sensors are the key
drivers," said Hennessy, adding that Ruralco's graduate
programme had seen a rise in the number and quality of
applicants. While Australia is among the world's leaders in robotics for
outdoor use, having given birth to the first robot to round up
cattle, the A$4 billion agriculture technology industry is still
in its infancy. It is mainly just a few companies that are big
enough to recruit. The nation's largest cattle firm Australian Agricultural
Company (AACo) is one of the local firms in the sector
that has regularly been hiring tech-savvy youngsters. "Interest in agriculture is rising, from engineers to
science-type graduates," said Gerard Davis, who heads a team of
seven in an innovation department at AACo that started under
three years ago. Data from Rimfire Resources, a recruiting firm specialised
in farming, showed 4,600 agricultural jobs were advertised on
the internet in 2016, from an average of 3,750 in the past three
years. "It is difficult to say whether the increase is driven by
technology, but there is a clear shift for off-the-farm roles,"
said Nigel Crawley, a director at Rimfire Resources.  Down on the farm New degrees such as agri-sciences are being added by
universities, with a sharp rise in students who do not have a
farming background. City-born engineering student Michael Forrai had never set
foot on a farm, but as part of his studies is now testing
weed-spraying functions on robots in wheat fields near Emerald,
a remote town in the state of Queensland. "I had never heard of Emerald before and really would have
never expected to work on a farm," said the 30-year-old student
from the University of Sydney. "Now, I see it as an amazing
opportunity ... I am definitely considering staying in
agricultural robotics." But competition is stiff for agricultural companies looking
to recruit engineers or tech graduates. Read also: App ploughs link between small and big farmers "We have to be looking all the time," said Matt Pryor, the
founder of water and livestock sensors maker Observant, citing
companies in aerospace, automotive, finance, healthcare and
e-commerce vying for the candidates. Observant provides web-based software to allow farmers to
check water levels remotely. The system collects data from soil
moisture sensors, weather stations and cameras. The 13-year-old company employs a staff of 12, having added
three technicians last year. "We changed our mindset from being position-focused to
talent-focused and that can be tough because you may take
somebody before the business is ready," said Pryor. "In a competitive market, you have to be at market price or
above," he said, declining to give more details. Reuters