Mhondoro Game lodge has teamed up with a renowned international yoga instructor and detox specialist to present an exclusive 6-Day/5-Night Detox and Yoga Safari at the 5-star lodge in the Welgevonden Game Reserve (Limpopo), from 19 to 24 June 2017.  The package includes 5 nights’ luxury accommodation and a complete detox programme with healthy meals and three detox juice fasting days, as well as personal coaching, yoga and meditation sessions, daily safaris, bushwalks and mindfulness walks, and three spa treatments, from R39 555 per person sharing.  The Mhondoro Detox and Yoga Safari will be hosted by Monique Christiaans of Yoga Zenzo in the Netherlands. She says: ‘It is my dream to give people tools to live more consciously. I fulfill this mission by presenting retreats in nature, where it is possible to escape one’s busy life and relax completely in a beautiful, natural environment.  Myriam Vogel, the owner of Mhondoro Game Lodge says that the lodge, and Mhondoro Villa in particular, lends itself perfectly to hosting exclusive wellness events like this, with extensive decks and heated swimming pools overlooking the wilderness, a yoga room and two small gymnasiums, as well as a Spa suite with a bath outside on the deck. ‘We have put together a programme aimed at relaxation and intensive cleansing. In six days you will go on a transformative journey that will tell you more about yourself and your current lifestyle. So whether you want to lose some weight, get more balance in your life or just enjoy the breathtaking scenery and wildlife, this promises to be an unforgettable experience.’  The programme will focus on detoxing. Toxins enter the body through sprayed foods and chemical additives in food, cosmetics, air pollution and medicines, while stress further acidifies the body. Stored toxins can manifest in symptoms such as fatigue and digestive problems. The body is built to dispose of waste itself but with the amount of polluted substances that are produced nowadays, the body can use some help! A supervised detox programme aided by specially formulated organic juices packed with vitamins and minerals energizes the body and helps it body to function optimally again.