Washington - This spring, cellphone carriers such as
T-Mobile plan to start supporting a new kind of mobile data. Known as LTE-U,
the technology may result in a faster, smoother mobile experience. But the
technology has also produced bitter fights between some of the nation's most
powerful industries as they battle for dominance over the airwaves. Short for "LTE-Unlicensed," LTE-U is a variant
of the 4G LTE that millions of Americans rely on every day. Like its
predecessor, LTE-U lets consumers connect to the Internet from almost anywhere
they've got cell service. But what makes it different - and also controversial
- is the fact that LTE-U will share the same radio frequencies as WiFi routers
and Bluetooth headphones. For the first time, cellphone signals will soon be
occupying the same channels as those common technologies. Customers of T-Mobile
and other carriers may find that the additional bandwidth increases their data
speeds. The Federal Communications Commission gave the green
light Wednesday to equipment makers such as Nokia and Ericsson to begin
deploying LTE-U devices, saying industry testing had proved that LTE-U and WiFi
can coexist peacefully. "This heralds a technical breakthrough in the many
shared uses of this spectrum," said FCC Chairman Ajit Pai. Read also: 4G smartphones ring in change for SA Minutes later, T-Mobile announced that thanks to the
decision, it will begin rolling out LTE-U devices within a matter of months. "The addition of LTE-U will only extend [our] lead
and further improve the Un-carrier's blazing-fast speeds," T-Mobile said
in a release. The FCC's decision comes after months of debate among
regulators, policy analysts and industry lobbyists over what could happen to
WiFi in an LTE-U world. In particular, the fight has pitted cable companies -
whose customers rely on WiFi routers to connect to the Internet - against
cellular carriers whose users are consuming an ever growing amount of mobile
data. Critics of the technology point to potential pitfalls should the smartphone
signals conflict with existing users of the airwaves, which aren't limited to
WiFi and Bluetooth and include garage door openers, baby monitors and key fobs
for cars. The debate also roped in consumer advocates and even the city of New
York, which sent a letter to the FCC and international standards authorities
saying LTE-U threatened the city's network of free WiFi hotspots. "Whether LTE-U proves to be helpful or harmful to
consumers remains to be seen," said Michael Calabrese, director of the New
America Foundation's Wireless Future Program. "Consumer advocates are very
concerned that the FCC has accepted an industry compromise that requires mobile
carriers to share fairly with WiFi only where WiFi signals are strong." WASHINGTON POST