DURBAN – When a team says goodbye to two senior Springboks, as well as an Under-20 and Sevens Bok star, it is hard to fathom how they will be replaced, but with the departure of JP Pietersen, Willie le Roux and Paul Jordaan, the Sharks are not looking any worse for wear. For the first time in a long time, the Sharks can call up their first choice halfback pairing in Cobus Reinach and Pat Lambie, who made it through unscathed in two warm-up matches. Having lost Lambie early on in the last three seasons, the management staff know what a void he leaves. “We lost Pat early in 2014 under Jake (White), and then the next year, as well as last year,” backline coach Sean Everitt said with a grimace. “It has not been easy because Super Rugby is not really a tournament to breed youngsters and give them experience, that is more for the Currie Cup.” Regardless, with Lambie’s seemingly eternal absence, the Sharks have unearthed some gems recently for the No 10 jersey, which is something that makes the backs coach breathe a little easier. “We have worked hard on the guys that will be in Pat’s footsteps, because at some stage he will need a rest, so we do have options as far as that is concerned – like Inny (Radebe), Benhard Janse van Rensburg, they have really done well, and Curwin can also play 10.” The Lambie-Reinach axis is one that will be the Sharks’ shining light, and one that many a Bok fan will watch with interest, as the yin and yang qualities of these players work so well together. “We missed Cobus a lot last year,” Everitt continued. “He provides us with X-factor, he is a good all round scrumhalf, and he is an opportunist with a good boot. But more importantly, he has been here a long time, he knows the system.” Delving into the backline, the Sharks seem to be happy to trust their youth with Andre Esterhuizen set to own the No 12 jumper alongside Lukhanyo Am outside him. “At the moment, Lukhanyo did well in the Currie Cup, and had a good pre-season, so we want to build on that continuity in the centres with Andre.” Everitt stated, but also with an eye for new signing Kobus van Wyk to move inside in a pinch. “At the moment Kobus is on the wing but we will look at him in centre if we have problems in that area.” Jeremy Ward is another centre option for the Sharks, showing great touches in the first two warm-up games. “Jeremy is a good signing for us being one of the top players in his position in age group in the country last year. He has fitted in well, and trained exceptionally hard this year, he is one of the hardest workers. But we mustn't forget a guy like Johan Deysel who came from the Leopards and played for Namibia in the World Cup.” Finally, at the back, the stage seems set for Curwin Bosch to be the last man in defence, but he will have the shoulder of a French veteran to lean on. “Clement Poitrenaud brings a lot of experience having played 49 tests for France, so with a young backline having someone with his experience at test level will be good for us; to lead, mentor and guide the youngsters that are going to be on the field.” Independent Media