From Atkins to The Z Diet, there are hundreds of weight loss programmes to
choose from if you're trying to slim down. But as one
nutritionist has revealed, some of the most well-known and trendiest diets
could actually pose a danger to your health. Registered
nutritionist Rhiannon Lambert has unveiled the fad diets that you should never
follow if you want to stay healthy, from the popular juice cleanse to becoming
a vegan on a whim. Juice cleanse  A photo posted by Kay (@imdifferentduh) on Feb 5, 2017 at 6:46pm PST Any
suggestion that the human body can be detoxed with a juice cleanse is
incorrect. We are naturally designed to remove toxins using our liver and
kidneys a juice cleanse won't perform such a detox. Those who
promote juicing often claim that drinking juice is better than eating whole
fruits and vegetables because removing fibre makes nutrients easier to absorb.
However, there is no scientific research to support this claim. Antioxidants are often bound to the fibre in fruit and vegetables and countless
research studies suggest that the lack of fibre in juices significantly reduces
any supposed health benefits. Consuming
well under 1,000 calories per day from juices will likely result in a stark
calorie deficit and weight-loss will be inevitable. But this is extremely
difficult to sustain for more than a few days and while a juice diet may help
initially with slimming, any severe calorie restriction can slow down your
metabolism long-term. Juices
should not be used as meal replacements. They do not contain sufficient protein
nor healthy fat - both of which are required by the body. In fact, drinking
juice over a long period of time could increase the risk of metabolic syndrome,
liver damage and even obesity. Veganism A photo posted by Vegan Food Photography by Lulu (@lulusdreamtown) on Feb 5, 2017 at 11:28am PST   At this time of year, many people try veganism to become healthier and lose
weight. But only by safely applying a vegan diet will you avoid deficiency
in key nutrients. There are
some nutrients that can only be obtained from plants such as vitamin C, and
others that can only be obtained from animal sources such as Vitamin B12, which
is involved in the function of every cell in the body and brain. As it isn't
found in any non-animal product (except algae), studies suggest vegans are more
often than not deficient in this critical nutrient. Other nutrients often
forgotten in a vegan diet include vitamin D, omega-3 and iron. READ: Food For Thought? Protein is of course vital for muscle and bone health but also for cells affecting our skin and hair. With about 20 per cent of the human body made up of protein, it’s important to get an adequate amount from your diet every single day. Thankfully, there are plenty of delicious, protein-rich plant-based foods to consider incorporating into your diet, including tofu, lentils, quinoa, hemp, chia and beans.  Alkaline diet  A photo posted by Deborah & Charlotte 🌱 (@desires_of_the_foodaholics) on Feb 5, 2017 at 10:57pm PST This weight
loss scheme is based on the claim that modern diets cause our body to produce
too much acid, which is then turned into fat, leading to weight gain. High
acidity levels have also been blamed on conditions such as arthritis,
osteoporosis, tiredness, and kidney and liver disorders. An alkaline
diet reduces the number of acid-producing foods you eat, such as meat, grains,
refined sugar, dairy, caffeine, alcohol and processed foods, in favour of
alkaline foods. Ultimately, the diet will consist of a great deal of fruit
and vegetables and a small amount of protein. While the
advice to cut back on processed foods, alcohol, caffeine and refined sugar is
good, any weight loss associated with this diet is largely down to the fact
these unhealthy foods have been cut out, rather than anything to do with acid
and alkaline. The human
body regulates its own acidity levels, regardless of what you eat and drink. Unlike so
many other diets, the alkaline diet is not unhealthy, but its claims are simply
not supported by science and human physiology. Meal replacements  A photo posted by s t   r o s e (@strosecafe) on Jun 25, 2016 at 3:16am PDT  The idea is
to restrict calories by eating a range of bars, soups, and shakes, as well as
having a few low-calorie meals. Like with any
calorie-restricting diet, weight loss can be dramatic. Despite some products
being fortified with vitamins and minerals to ensure nutrition isn't
lost, the very mindset of giving up normal meals and swapping them for a snack
bar or a shake can be boring, socially isolating and difficult to maintain
long-term. And while
fortified products are a welcome addition to any restrictive diet, the
inclusion of sugar and artificial chemicals is definitely not, with studies
suggesting that they will limit any health benefits from vitamins and
minerals. A
blackcurrent and apple shake, for example, contains 44.1g of sugar per 100g significantly above your recommended daily intake. Low calory meal plans Low-calorie weight loss programmes are based on your Body Mass Index (BMI)
score, which will dictate how many meals a day you have. This diet
does advise you to see a GP before you start and can fit into a busy schedule -
but it has many drawbacks. Restricting carbohydrates and fibre will result in
side effects such as tiredness, dizziness, and constipation, making this plan
unsustainable long-term. READ:Want a flat stomach? Then eat this It could
also impact on your mental well-being. Without any allowance for spontaneous
eating out, they are unsustainable as diet plans. Any
low-calorie diet that involves eating 1,000 calories a day or less should not
be followed for more than 12 continuous weeks and should require professional
medical supervision. Low fat meal plans These diets encourage the swapping of high-fat foods for low-fat foods which
are naturally filling. But this idea is out-dated, with healthy fats now
considered a crucial element in our meals. On these
diets, some items are considered 'free foods' which can be eaten in unlimited
amounts including fruit, vegetables, pasta, meat, fish and eggs. No calorie
counting is involved and no foods are banned, and it's said you could lose one
or two pounds a week. But without
any education surrounding portion sizes and nutritional intake, many will find
it difficult to understand what to do when the programme ends and struggle to
keep the weight off long-term.  A photo posted by Claudia Kim (@starchtrek) on Feb 5, 2017 at 1:29pm PST  There would
also be a temptation to fill up on 'free foods' such as processed meats without
any concern for the salt, sugar and other unhealthy additives contained in
them. With many
carbohydrates restricted, these diets will only worsen some people's obsessive
fear of supposed 'bad foods'. 