Chippa United (1) 1 Manzini 37  Mamelodi Sundowns (1) 1 Arendse 19  Johannesburg – You know the football is going to be easy on the eye when these two sides meet – even if the unpredictable Victor Gomes is the man with the whistle. It was the third time this season that Chippa United and Mamelodi Sundowns faced off having played against each other in semifinals of the MTN8 earlier in the season. Sundowns were winners then, but only just, thanks to an aggregate scoreline of 1-0 over two legs. That’s hardly been forgotten, and they almost continued from where they left off in horrid conditions at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane, Eastern Cape, where there was a capacity crowd. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane made eight changes to the side that thumped Orlando Pirates 6-0 at the weekend, with Ivorian Yannick Zakri returning to the starting line-up for the first time since October. Mosimane had made it clear in the build-up to this Absa Premiership encounter that he would ring the changes because he needed fresh legs for the CAF Super Cup against TP Mazembe on Saturday night at Loftus Versfeld. It barely looked like a second string team, overpowering the hosts Chippa and getting a 19th minute lead through captain on the day in Wayne Arendse. But their lack of match fitness – particularly Zakri and Teko Modise – became evident as they settled for a draw. Chippa, although still quite enterprising when in possession of the ball, were hardly a threat in the final third. Their goal came courtesy of a Rhulani Manzini penalty, one highly debatable after defender Arendse appeared to have cleared the ball while and taking down Buyani Sali on the follow through. Referee Gomes did not hesitate pointing to the spot in the 37th minute. The second half did not produce enough clear cut chances for either side, with the best goal-scoring opportunity for Sundowns falling on Modise’s lap. But the veteran midfielder skied his shot over the bar five minutes after the teams had emerged from the tunnel for the second half. Chippa also gave their visitors a scare when Linda Shiba blitzed past the flat-footed Sundowns defence and tested goalkeeper Wayne Sandilands, who managed to punch the ball away back into play, but safely away. The result meant that the Brazilians could not cut the lead at the top and remain in fifth place on the league table, but still have an incredible five games in hand. Chippa moved back into the top eight. @superjourno @extrastrongsa Independnet Media