Police, neighbourhood watch and a local security firm worked together to trap the suspects, from Strand, who allegedly kidnapped a 31-year-old man from Brackenfell hours earlier. A police officer close to the investigation says the kidnappers demanded R10 000 from the man’s family and were told to drop it off at a fast food restaurant in Brackenfell. Instead, the man’s brother reported the matter to police, who devised a plan to catch the trio. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk says the drama started on Saturday, when a man told cops his brother had been kidnapped on Friday night. “At approximately 3am on Saturday, a complainant came to Brackenfell Community Service Centre[CSC] asking for assistance," Van Wyk says. “He alleged that his 31-year-old brother, a resident of Brackenfell, was kidnapped and that the kidnappers demanded an undisclosed amount of cash as ransom from the family for his release. “He had to meet them at a well-known fast food franchise on Old Paarl Road. “Brackenfell SAPS responded to the complaint and, with the assistance of neighbourhood watches and security companies, blocked off all exit routes.” Van Wyk says the brother was only informed that the kidnappers would be driving a black VW Golf. “At approximately 3:15am a black Golf parked on Old Paarl Road. Two passengers got out and walked onto the premises of the fast food franchise.” Police pounced and the driver of the Golf tried to escape, but was blocked by members of Brackenfell SAPS and Titanium Securitas Services. “The victim was found in the vehicle unharmed,” says Van Wyk. A security guard says “the whole situation was like something out of a movie”. “They didn’t stand a chance, we had them completely surrounded. Me and a colleague caught the two that got out of the car. “The driver tried to get away, but we boxed him in at Brackenfell Boulevard. “The family was also at the scene and they identified the victim. “When we got to him, sitting in the back of the car, he was a nervous wreck. He looked so scared and panicked. “Luckily, the criminals were not armed.” Van Wyk said the suspects, aged 31, 28 and 20 were arrested on charges of kidnapping. “The suspects are all from Strand. A kidnapping docket was opened and transferred to Maitland SAPS, for further investigation.” Police did not want to divulge any more details, saying the matter was under investigation. Daily Voice