Royal Bafokeng Sports Palace  Platinum Stars (0)1 (Mlilo, 49m)  Mamelodi Sundowns (1)2 (Zwane 11m, Billiat 84m)  PHOKENG – Platinum Stars came into this match expecting a baptism of fire from the CAF Champions League and CAF Super Cup champions. The weather had other ideas, bucketing down heavily here. Sundowns did what they have been doing throughout; they adapted and drowned Dikwena in their own backyard.  But Sundowns made the mistake of leaving Dikwena with a pulse instead of killing them off when they had the chance. It almost proved to be a costly mistake as the hosts came close to stealing a point from the reigning Absa Premiership champions. It would have been an important point for the Dikwena because it would have pushed them four points clear of bottom-placed Baroka FC.  The reigning Footballer of the Year, Khama Billiat, made sure that didn’t happen, powering Sundowns into a victory that saw them return to Pretoria with maximum points. This win puts them four points behind log-leaders Kaizer Chiefs with five games in hand.  Sundowns had toyed with a helpless Dikwena, running rings around them to show the gulf in class between these two teams – one having conquered the country and the continent while the other is languishing in the bottom half of the log. But games between these two clubs aren’t normally one-sided, which is why Pitso Mosimane fielded a formidable starting XI.  That strong team turned this encounter into a one-sided affair in the first half. The Brazilians could have wrapped up the match then if they were more clinical. But they only had Themba Zwane’s goal on the scoreboard.  Dikwena returned to the second half fired up. Sphamandla Mlilo pulled one back with a header to finally make this match a contest. That goal came from a free-kick on Sundowns’ right flank, where Thapelo Morena had replaced Anele Ngcongca who limped off the pitch with a groin injury. The conditions took a toll on Sundowns whose players have played more games than Dikwena. Anthony Laffor also limped off the field.  Dikwena piled on the pressure, doing what Sundowns did to them in the first half. Stars bossed the second half with authority as the heavy downpour increased. The difference between this Sundowns and the one that won the league convincingly is that last season’s Brazilians would hit their opponents early and strangle the life out of them.  By the time their opponents regain their breath, Sundowns would be home and dry. This Sundowns on the other hand still tries to hit their opponents early. But they don’t hit them with enough punches to knock them out, giving them room to recover and trouble the side.  That’s how Chippa United came back to draw with Sundowns in East London and that’s how Dikwena almost came back last night. Coincidentally the pitch was unplayable in both those matches. But the Brazilians moved the ball better here. It’s just that Stars were up for the fight. That wasn’t enough against a strong Sundowns’ team that Mosimane promised will box smartly in their catch-up programme.  They did that last night, showing determination to come back in a match they had no business losing control of. This win will put Sundowns in a commanding position going into their clash with Bidvest Wits on Saturday. That encounter could go a long way in deciding where this league will go, as Sundowns and Wits are among the favourites.   Independent Media