PIETERMARITZBURG – Matches between Maritzburg United and Kaizer Chiefs promise fireworks, and the lightning and thunder that delayed the start of this Absa Premiership clash by 30 minutes gave a taste of what was to come as Chiefs won 2-1 at Harry Gwala Stadium on Saturday night. Three second-half goals lit up this clash as the Soweto giants secured second place on the log with a fourth win on the trot. Despite playing on a sodden pitch following a torrent of rain before the kickoff, the endeavour from both sides was upbeat as they tried to play their normal passing game in front of an appreciative crowd of almost 12 000. Chiefs had the brightest opening when winger Joseph Molangoane scuffed an effort weakly to goalkeeper Bongani Mpandle after 15 minutes. Maritzburg’s Mohau Mokate had a shot parried by Itumeleng Khune three minutes later, and Chiefs defender Erick Mathoho powered a header wide off Siphiwe Tshabalala’s free kick to set an attacking tone. There was even a nutmeg by Molangoane that earned Chiefs a free kick and got their supporters more vociferous. The majority Chiefs supporters arrived in a mood of expectation after their side notched a hat trick of wins with the restart of the league this week. Unbeaten in four games, Chiefs started this tie with an opportunity to go top of the standings, and they played in that spirit. Coach Steve Komphela stuck with the unit that beat Free State Stars 3-1 to keep the winning momentum. Maritzburg had similar intentions. Unbeaten in six outings, new coach Roger de Sa also went for consistency after their 1-1 draw at Polokwane City. He kept the same line-up save for Themba Tshabalala replacing the suspended central defender Bevan Fransman. Led by new captain Denis Weidlich, and invigorated by the fresh energy that midfielders Bandile Shandu and Siphesihle Ndlovu lent the team, Maritzburg matched their more illustrious guests for effort. However, on a greasy surface that limited slick passing, it took a set play to make the difference, and that’s where Chiefs came out on top. Willard Katsande met a George Maluleka free kick with a thumping header early after the restart for a 1-0 lead. And with this Chiefs outfit on the warpath, it needed something special from the home team. It was provided by striker Mokate, who scored midway through the second half for his third goal in three games. Chiefs rose to the challenge that championship contenders are supposed to overcome and replied with an open-play goal of their own. Ramahlwe Mphahlele supplied the pass and Tshabalala finished it to send the Amakhosi to second position. They continue their charge when they host Highlands Park in Durban next weekend, while Maritzburg will have almost two weeks until their next game to recover from this setback.  kamlesh.gosai@inl.co.za  Independent Media