Cape Town – An alleged online fraudster was caught after he responded to the same advert on Gumtree twice. The man, believed to be in his forties, allegedly failed to pay for a cellphone worth R18 000. Steven Oosthuizen, 27, from Durbanville says he advertised his silver iPhone 7 on the popular classifieds website in November last year. “A white guy responded, saying he was interested in buying the phone which I was selling for R18 000,” explains Steven. “We met and he promised to pay the money via EFT (electronic funds transfer) into my bank account." “He looked honest and I took his word for it although I did notice that he was sweating a lot.” Steven says he gave the man his expensive cellphone, expecting payment within two days. “No money came into my account, but I didn’t want to go to the police,” he explains. “The cell number he gave me wasn’t working anymore." “Last Thursday I decided to take action and I advertised the phone again, hoping he would respond." “It wasn’t long before he called. I immediately recognised his voice, and he had a new cell number." “He said he was from Worcester, and that he would pay via EFT. I arranged for him to meet my ‘wife’ the next day at a local mall.” Steven says on Friday, he approached his security company C-Max, who then set a trap for the suspect. “Carla Lourens from C-Max played the role of my wife, and we agreed to meet at 1pm,” he says. But at the restaurant in Durban Road in Bellville, the suspect sent an unknown woman in to do the transaction. Steven says: “We saw where he dropped the woman and parked his bakkie, and the security guards went to arrest him." “When the guards surrounded him, he didn’t even resist. He admitted that he defrauded people but said he would talk further in court.” Steven adds: “After I posted my story on Facebook, three people have come forward. Victims said they received fake SMS notifications of payments made into their accounts.” Captain FC van Wyk confirms the arrest and that fraud is being investigated: “The suspect is also wanted in Struisbaai on similar charges, while another complainant will be opening a case of fraud at Durbanville SAPS involving the same suspect.” Daily Voice