When was the first time you realised that you had an interest in food? Being born into a foodie family, it was more a case of being an accidental foodie. I have been baking since I could climb up on a kitchen stool, hold a spoon and stir. In my family, if you are old enough to hold a spoon you are automatically inducted into the Margaret Wasserfall school of baking and all things yummy. I see my baby sister, 3, being roped into helping in the kitchen and recognise all the signs that she is going to be a great foodie. What was the first meal you cooked, and was it delicious? A Sunday roast. There is not a Sunday in our family home that goes by without a roast lunch and my first solo was Mother’s Day 2005, at age 10. It was delicious. I learnt from the best. Since you’re diabetic, you have had to watch what you eat from a young age. What was your favourite treat growing up? Macaroons and and my annual birthday cake, usually a Rocky Road Cake or Naked Layered Cake (a more adult version of the Rainbow Cake) How did you find different ways to prepare your food without it feeling like a schlep? Until recently I have felt so deprived and life was a little bland, but last year I made the switch to Banting. More recently my eating has evolved into Paleo, which I find more forgiving and easier to sustain and I am having so much fun exploring fresh, clean eating. Your diet is very restrictive,
but can it still be delicious? Absolutely. I recently
discovered the most incredible
App, “Yumly”, and I am eating my
way through the Diabetic Paleofriendly
fresh recipes. There are so
many ways to sweeten your meals
by using natural alternatives and
combining them with foods that
lower the overall GI of the meal.
The emphasis is basically on fresh,
wholesome ingredients. I have
never been so happy and felt so
good. READ MORE: Holly's Date, Coconut and Cocoa Truffles Do you have a favourite
ingredient you put in
everything? Being summer and hot, I am
making loads of smoothies and
my favourite ingredient is coconut
milk. I am using it in those, chia
seed puddings and in chicken or
lamb dishes. Do you have a guilty
pleasure? Macaroons! I always need an
extra shot of insulin, but it’s worth
the pain. What’s the one thing you
cook really well? Cake! I am more of a baker than
a cook. Family birthday cakes,
deserts and foodie gifts are my
thing. And the one thing you wish
you could cook well? Curry – they say the way to a
man’s heart is a good curry, so as a
girl who doesn’t do chilli, I want to
master the art of a good Korma. What’s your favourite dish,
and can you cook it? Pork Belly with perfect
crackling. And yes, I can. Who is your biggest
influence in food and cooking? My gran, Margaret. What have they taught you
that you always think about
before cooking? If you can read, you can cook.
Follow a recipe, especially if
you’re baking: baking is an exact
science. What’s the one thing you
have to eat or drink before or
after performing? I usually eat before I leave home
because as a diabetic I can’t risk
going somewhere and finding I
can’t eat anything. I always have
a flask of lemon tea I drink before
performing. * Holly has been selected by IMEXSA to perform at the upcoming SA Indies Music Week next week 