Cape Town – South Africa stands on the shoulders of giants, those brave enough to use whatever means necessary to fight the former apartheid government. One of those giants was lawyer and later High Court Judge Essa Moosa, who using his astute legal mind stood up in court for struggle activists, aligning himself with those who fought for freedom and those too poor to defend themselves in court. His passing on Sunday, surrounded by those closest to him, is devastating. Even though he had been ill for some time. Sekunjalo and Independent Media Executive chairman, Dr Iqbal Survé said on Sunday he was overcome with grief at Judge Moosa’s death. “During the eighties we knew who to turn to in times of struggle, we knew that if the security police was hunting us, if activists went missing, if people were being held in detention without trial, that our struggle lawyer Essa Moosa would be there. He did not only provide legal counsel, but also gave some of himself to many of us.” Dr Survé, said: “We do not only salute him for the work he did during the dark days of apartheid, but also for helping usher in a new, just South Africa. When I visited him last week, I thanked him on behalf of all South Africans and for his guidance to so many of us who fought for political and social justice. Our condolences to Judge Moosa’s family, We thank you sharing such a great man with us. Thank you for opening your home and hearts to us for so many decades. ” Many journalists at Independent Media came across Judge Moosa at some point of their careers. They were exposed to his fairness and astuteness, he was a lawyer that older journalists will remember for his work under apartheid, for many others, as a judge who paved the way for justice in the country. Independent Media expresses its sadness at Judge Moosa’s passing. He made an incredible impact on journalism and how legal journalism is covered and written about. Echoing Dr Survé, Independent Media says even though a giant has fallen, his passing makes us remember why he sacrificed so much, so that millions could have freedom. Hamba Kahle struggle lawyer. Your contribution will be remembered by millions. Independent Media