CAPE TOWN – The one position in the Springbok team that has a big ‘vacant’ sign hanging over it is that of hooker. And one of the men hoping to fill that spot is the Lions’ Malcolm Marx.  The 22-year-old got a taste of Test rugby last year, playing behind captain Adriaan Strauss, but the latter’s retirement from international rugby means the No 2 jersey is up for grabs.  While Marx admits he has his eye on the jumper, he said it was the furthest thing on his mind right now.  “Of course it’s one of my goals ... to play for the Boks, but I’m not even thinking about that,” he said.  “All I want to do now is have a good Super Rugby competition and be consistent in my performances. All my focus is on that. I enjoyed a good season last year but know I have to improve and get better.  “I can’t rely on what went down a year ago; it counts for nothing. There are new challenges for me and everyone else in the Lions squad.”  The Lions, surprise finalists last year, kick off their campaign against the Cheetahs in Bloemfontein on Saturday – against virtually the same team they lost to in the Currie Cup semi-finals last October.  Marx said the Lions were reading nothing into that result, a 55-17 beating.  “They’re a good side and like us they play an entertaining and attractive brand of rugby and their unbeaten run in the Currie Cup would have given them a big confidence boost, but that match is now long gone.”  Somewhat surprisingly alongside Marx’s name when coach Johan Ackermann announced his 40-man squad last week were the words hooker and loose-forward. Does that mean the powerful No 2 will perhaps turn out on the flank or at No 8 this year?  “I don’t think so. I think that might have come about because I ran a bit in the loose-forwards in pre-season when we were short of loosies,” said Marx. “Hooker is my first love, but I’ll play anywhere I’m needed,” he joked.  He might just have to considering the other two recognised hookers in the squad are Springbok tourist Robbie Coetzee and the ever-energetic Akker van der Merwe. Marx said they all push each other to deliver their best.  “I suppose we all offer something different and are effective in our own ways, but yes, the competition between us is intense. Robbie and Akker are tough competitors and they certainly bring out the best in me, like I try to do for them.”  Marx said the Lions’ preparations for this weekend’s opener against the Cheetahs had been somewhat affected by the persistent rain that has fallen over Joburg since Monday.  “We had a short field session (on Tuesday) and then moved indoors. It’s so wet out there and just isn’t pleasant, but it’s not just us who have been affected; the Cheetahs have also had a lot of rain.”  Saturday’s match kicks off at 3pm. Independent Media 