Earlier, Buthelezi denied knowing anything about his daughter getting married to Ramogibe and told the court that he recognised Mdluli as his son-in-law because he paid lobola of about R6 000 and had two children with his daughter, one was still born. He told the court Mdluli was a good husband because after lobola he took Tshidi to stay with him and also paid for her studies. "I wouldn't have agreed for Mdluli to stay with my daughter if I felt she wouldn't be cared for," Buthelezi told Prosecutor Zaais Van Zyl. During cross examination, he suddenly admitted that he actually heard about Ramogibe, he said he first got wind about the deceased from his children and this was later confirmed when Mdluli came to him to complain that Tshidi was seeing another man. Van Zyl asked Buthelezi if he had questioned Tshidi about her affair with Ramogibe. "I never got a chance to confront Tshidi because she was sick and in hospital, after she was was discharged she went to stay with her mother and she took her to St Francis because she was now critical." The 74-year-old said he saw Ramogibe and Tshidi's marriage certificate after her funeral and claimed his ex-wife hid information about Tshidi's affairs from him. Van Zyl read notes which were taken by investigating officer Kobus Roelofse during one of the visits at Buthelezi's house. In the notes, Roelofse claims that during conversation Buthelezi mentioned that his daughter was kidnapped by Mdluli for the whole year. He denied ever discussing such with Roelofse. "How can Mdluli kidnap Tshidi while they were staying together," he said looking puzzled. According to Buthelezi, Mdluli and Tshidi had a good relationship and he's not aware of any assault or was ever called to resolve issues between the two. Tshidi started dating Mdluli in 1986 when she was 16 and he was 28-years-old. But the relationship fizzled out and Buthelezi later met Ramogibe. The pair married in July, 1998. Mdluli and Mthunzi allegedly intimidated, kidnapped and assaulted Ramogibe. He was shot in 1999. They have pleaded not guilty. The charges against the pair stem from the alleged extreme lengths that Mdluli went to between 1997 and 1999 to find out where Buthelezi and Ramogibe were hiding. Ramogibe was shot in 1999. No one was ever convicted of Ramogibe’s murder. Mdluli has been accused of sabotaging the investigation. Tshidi also died in 2003 after an illness. The matter was postponed to March 01. African News Agency