 February 5, 2016 Solomon Nyerende, Pretty Nkambule and Yvonne Mnisi are on duty in a mine  lamproom container that is swallowed by a sinkhole following a collapse caused by a crown pillar. Eighty-seven other mineworkers are trapped inside the mine. Rescue teams are dispatched to the mine while the 87 miners are evacuated through the ventilation shaft. February 6 - Day 2 The rescue teams race against time throughout the night in a bid to reach the three mineworkers. Lily Mine’s operations manager Mike Begg announces that the rescue teams have reached the fourth level where the metal container is believed to be. February 7 - Day 3 Religious groups gather at the entrance of the mine to offer support to the affected families. Begg announces that about 3 000 tons of rubble had been dug out in an effort to reach the container. February 8 - Day 4 Hopes are raised when Begg announces that rescue teams confirmed hearing knocking, believed to be emanating from beneath the tons of rubble.
Heat sensors indicate that at least one of the mineworkers is still alive. Begg stresses that their main worry is dehydration and hunger being experienced by the trio. February 9 - Day 5 It is believed that a 12m-wide wall of rubble stands between rescuers and the three mineworkers, fuelling hope that a successful rescue mission is imminent. February 10 - Day 6 Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) leader Joseph Mathunjwa, who spent time underground lending a hand with the rescue mission, tells the media that he believes they will be able to locate and rescue the mineworkers. February 11 - Day 7 Begg announces that it has been 48 hours since the rescue teams made contact with the three mineworkers. He says the teams are making inroads and are 10 metres from the container and certain of its location. However, a more cautious approach to the mission has to be employed as the situation underground becomes more dangerous. February 12 - Day 8 Begg reports on controlled blasting to get through the rubble to reach the three mineworkers. February 13 - Day 9 Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane announces that the families of the trio will each receive R200 000, 
while surviving miners will receive 
R50 000. Rescue operations are halted until the mine is declared safe by a team of experts after a second collapse occurs. February 14 - Day 10 Following the second collapse, geologists begin assessing the area to determine whether it is safe to continue with the search and rescue mission. February 15-16 - Days 11 and 12 Operations are temporarily halted for an additional 72 hours after experts declare the area unsafe. March 10 Vantage Goldfields chief executive officer Mike McChesney announces 
that the search mission will be suspended for an additional six months after being advised by geo-technical experts that the only option to reach the container was through a new entry point. He adds that this was the “best and quickest” way to continue the operation. August 18 Six months following the collapse, Amcu organises a protest march to the Department of Mineral Resources in Pretoria and urges Zwane to renew attempts to recover the container. To date, there has not been any attempt to reach the three mineworkers after operations were halted in March.