Sleeping in the great outdoors may not be for everyone but there’s a definite sense of freedom with camping and caravanning that is hard to beat. You may find yourself avoiding hotels all together once you’ve spent time experiencing nature first hand and enjoying the many benefits of a camping or caravanning trip. The fresh air, the exercise and the sunshine are some of the reasons why camping and caravanning is the healthier holiday option. The health benefits of getting out into the great outdoors have been well documented and camping and caravanning is one of the best ways to get plenty of fresh air. Not only will you be spending time away from the city pollution but the extra sunshine will also help to increase your vitamin D levels. Camping and caravanning is not just about sticking up tents, parking your caravan and cooking on an open fire. A great number of outdoor activities can be had including swimming in dams, canoeing, cycling, horse riding and rock climbing. Expect fishing, game and bird watching, volleyball, swimming, mountain bike trails, nature hikes, canoeing and 4X4 routes if you go camping and caravanning in Limpopo Your serotonin levels will increase with the additional exercise leaving you feeling less stressed and extremely relaxed. Getting back to basics and slowing down is a major bonus when camping and caravanning. Forget the expensive restaurants when camping or caravanning; this is all about doing it yourself. You can go for the open fire cooking option but with the amount of high tech equipment available there’s no reason not to have an almost fully equipped kitchen wherever you go. There are major financial benefits to a camping and caravanning holiday. Camping and caravanning is the cheaper option when compared to paying for hotels or holiday apartments: your tent or caravan is all the accommodation required. In an economy where meeting basic daily living costs has become nearly impossible, camping and caravanning makes it possible to afford  a much needed family break.  The major financial bonus with camping and caravanning is that you are pretty much unlimited in where you can set up your camp in the wilderness. If you are camping in designated camp sites then you may have to pay a small nightly fee. Sleeping out in nature is the best sleep you will ever have, the fresh air, exercise and the peace and quiet are all conducive towards a great night’s sleep. Many people who have been on camping holidays claim they have returned home feeling more relaxed and rejuvenated than after any other holiday. It’s also been reported that many campers benefit from enhanced sleep cycles after a camping holiday. Camping allows you to escape the crowds, get back to nature and spend some quality time with family and friends. If you are still unconvinced about the benefits then why not hire the equipment needed and try it out for a weekend. If you fall in love with sleeping in the great outdoors then you may find yourself packing your tent, jumping into your car and taking off whenever the holiday mood hits you. Here are some top spots in Limpopo to camp Bergsig Eco Estate, Bela-Bela Bergsig is a 340 hectare bushveld reserve that offers views out of the bushveld, the Hoek Mountains and the valleys below, just two hour’s drive from Johannesburg. It’s thus a perfect weekend spot that gives you the chance to do a ‘bushveld’ escape, animals included (no Big 5 but good access to the animals that are here), without having to travel too far. Andanté Game Farm, Naboomspruit This camping spot lies at the foot of the Waterberg, is in a malaria-free zone and gives a taste of the Bushveld experience. It is also fairly small, offering just 13 stands to both caravans and tents. The allure is definitely the silence of typically clear bushveld evenings around a camp fire, broken only by the call of a jackal or the snort of a wildebeest in the bush nearby. Kaoxa Camp, Alldays, Mapungubwe Another luxury experience, Kaoxa, which lies between two magnificent sandstone ridges, lies within World Heritage Site and smacks of a timeless experience where the orange Kalahari sand beneath your feet, and the sight of baobabs, will have you breathing normally again in no time. Kurisa Moya Nature Lodge, Houtbosdorp, near Magoebaskloof There are only two stands on this campsite, so perfect for those after an escape that includes avoiding the throngs. Kurisa is 422 hectares of nature at its best on the edge of the Drakensberg escarpment with incredible views over the lowveld. Magoebaskloof Getaway, Magoebaskloof Set in the country close to Haenertsburg, this is a wonderful breakaway for those after trout flyfishing, and hiking and biking in amongst the mountains and streams of this almost subtropical part of the Limpopo. Waterberg Wilderness Reserve, Naboomspruit This is one for the more rugged amongst you. To access the farm you will need a 4X4 vehicle with good ground clearance. But it will be worth it for the beauty of the views over the surrounding hills and valleys and for the opportunity to explore the gorges and their streams and pools on foot or along mountain bike trails. Madikela Game Lodge, Vaalwater Lying in the heart of the Waterberg Biosphere on the Waterberg Plateau, Madikela Game Lodge lies just over two hours’ drive from Pretoria in a maleria-free zone. The beauty of the rocky outcrops, limestone plateau and free wilderness make this a beautiful escape that gives you a real sense of the African wilderness without having to travel too far to enjoy it.