Cape Town - A man, believed to be a bodyguard of suspected 28s gang boss Ralph Stanfield, has been arrested with an illegal firearm and ammunition at a city hospital where he is being treated. Police say the 39-year-old man was nabbed at the private hospital on Wednesday at 10.50am, for allegedly being in possession of an unlicensed gun. Cape Flats crime fighters said the move was an expected one from Stanfield, who would be “surrounding himself with his own bodyguards while in a vulnerable positions”. The alleged gang boss is still in a critical but stable condition after he was shot in his larney Audi R8 sportscar in Joburg last Thursday. A hospital spokesperson confirmed to the Daily Voice that the suspect was nabbed on their grounds. “Local police were alerted when a suspicious visitor was spotted on the premises who appeared to be carrying a firearm. This was confirmed on their arrival and the man was arrested on the grounds. Weapons are not permitted on the hospital premises and have to be declared.” Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel André Traut, confirms the arrest: “We can confirm a 39-year-old man was arrested [on Wednesday] around 10:50am for being in possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition outside a city hospital. “Once charged, the suspect is due to make a court appearance in Cape Town Magistrate’s Court.” Police sources say the suspect is one of several guards protecting Stanfield at the hospital. The suspect’s BMW was also searched, but nothing was found. Earlier this week during an exclusive interview with the Daily Voice, Stanfield’s wife, Nicole Stanfield, confirmed her husband was back in Cape Town after he was flown in a private jet from Johannesburg on Monday. Stanfield was attacked by masked men while parked at the Melrose Arch Mall in Joburg. According to police, three of the 14 bullets fired at his car hit Stanfield in the upper body. Cops say he was wearing a bulletproof vest and was alone inside the vehicle. The 37-year-old tried to drive himself to the nearby Morningside Medi-Clinic in Sandton, but lost control of his car and smashed into three other vehicles. Hanif Loonat, local crime fighter and former Cluster Chairperson of the Mitchells Plain Community Policing Forum, says he is not surprised to see armed guards looking out for Stanfield, but says it puts the lives of innocent people at the hospital at risk. “These guys are going to be protected and they come with arms; it was expected,” he says. “It’s now a dog eat dog game where each life is now at risk. It is unfortunate that this is allowed in our city where gangs rule.” Last year November, Stanfield’s lawyer Noorudien Hassan, was gunned down in a suspected hit while sitting in his car outside his Lansdowne home. Daily Voice