Washington - Two Chinese fighter jets
intercepted a US Navy surveillance plane over the East China
Sea at the weekend, with one jet coming within about 300 feet
(91 meters) of the American aircraft, US officials said on
Monday. The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
initial reports showed one of the Chinese J-10 aircraft came
close enough to the US EP-3 plane on Sunday to cause the
American aircraft to change direction. One of the officials said the Chinese jet was armed and the
interception happened 80 nautical miles (148 km) from the
Chinese city of Qingdao. The Pentagon said the encounter between the aircraft was
unsafe, but added that the vast majority of interactions were
safe. China's Defence Ministry said the actions of its pilots were
"legal, necessary and professional" and performed "in accordance
with the law and the rules". "Close-in reconnaissance by US aircraft threatens China's
national security, harms Sino-US maritime and air military
safety, endangers the personal safety of both sides' pilots and
is the root cause of unexpected incidents," it said. The United States should immediately stop these military
activities, which are unsafe, unprofessional and unfriendly, it
added. Incidents such as Sunday's intercept are relatively common. In May, two Chinese SU-30 aircraft intercepted a US aircraft designed to detect radiation while it was flying in
international air space over the East China Sea. China closely monitors any US military activity around its
coastline. In 2001, an intercept of a US spy plane by a Chinese
fighter jet resulted in a collision that killed the Chinese
pilot and forced the American plane to make an emergency landing
at a base on Hainan. The 24 US air crew members were held for 11 days until
Washington apologized for the incident. That encounter soured
US-Chinese relations in the early days of President George W.
Bush's first term in office. Separately, the Pentagon said the US military would soon
carry out another test of it's Terminal High Altitude Area
Defense (THAAD) system. "These tests are done as a routine measure to ensure that
the system is ready and... they are scheduled well in advance of
any other real world geopolitical events going on," Pentagon
spokesman Captain Jeff Davis told reporters. The director of the Missile Defense Agency, Lieutenant
General Sam Greaves, said in a statement that a test would be
carried out at the Pacific Spaceport Complex in Alaska. Last month the United States shot down a simulated, incoming
intermediate-range ballistic missile similar to the ones being
developed by countries like North Korea, in a test of the
nation's THAAD missile defenses. The United States deployed THAAD to South Korea this year to
guard against North Korea's shorter-range missiles. That has
drawn fierce criticism from China, which says the system's
powerful radar can penetrate deep into its territory. Reuters