This year, women are getting a chance to find the ultimate #livingdream space in their own back garden by simply transforming that unused storage or tool shed. “Men’s space was given a lot of attention with the Man Cave trend but we are now seeing a turn towards the feminine with the introduction of She Sheds,” explained Sian Cullingworth, portfolio director: Design, Lifestyle and Retail Exhibitions for Decorex SA. “More and more women are looking for a safe hideaway with the extended comfort of home. This is a unique space dedicated to the individual needs and preferences of each women, be it for recreation, rest or fun. Many homeowners will admit to having an outdoor shed which serves little or no purpose but as an extravagant museum to unused tools or gardening paraphernalia. The desire to de-clutter this wasted space is always at the bottom of the to-do list primarily because it quickly reverts back to its former mess. Even for those homeowners who don’t have a spare shed, it’s possible to buy a simple structure and create your own cosy nook following some simple guidelines. 1. Decide on the shed’s purpose Before tackling this project, it’s important to brainstorm what the purpose of your She Shed will be. If you’re an avid gardener, then consider converting it into a potting shed complete with the necessary tools and plants. For hobbyists, shelves for storage of equipment would be encouraged while those just looking for somewhere to retreat could consider lounge furniture and bookshelves.
 
2. A fresh coat of paint After the mandatory clean out and wash down, paint the entire shed – including the floors - a bright shade to breathe new life in the space and increase the perceived size. White is always a classic colour choice, but other hues that work well include calming, pale blues or light yellow. 3. Invite nature inside The beauty of the She Shed is its connection with both the home and the natural world. The healing power of nature has inspired the current Urban Jungle trend so try bringing in pot plants, incorporating grassy plants, vines and flowered window boxes or bring floral prints into this sanctuary for a calming ambience.
 
4. Seek out some treasures Decorating your She Shed is a great excuse to visit local flea markets and antique stalls for interesting and unexpected furnishing finds.
 
5. Make yourself comfortable Your She Shed needs to be somewhere you want to spend your time so you need to make it as inviting as possible and that means comfort. A daybed topped with fluffy pillows, soft lighting and a stunning rug will make this a really special space.
 
6. Don’t forget outside Inside and out, the She Shed needs to be a soothing space of serenity so consider decorating the door, hanging attractive curtains and even fairy lights. 7. It’s all about you There is no right or wrong way to decorate your She Shed, as long as it reflects you. As your interests and needs change, so should your She Shed. It’s worth taking a step back every year and analysing if the space is still what you want. If not, change it up. The She Shed needs to be user-friendly and should adapt as you do.