When it comes to musicals, Candida Mosoma is in her element. It also explains her Naledi honours for Best Performance in a Musical for Sister Act last year. This talented performer has an impressive number of stage productions under her belt: Joseph and His Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Pinocchio, Jesus Christ Superstar, The Lion King – SA, Shaka Zulu The Musical, Dreamgirls SA and Priscilla Queen of the Desert. She has toured Italy, Ireland and the UK, among others. She’s also known for her TV appearances in Rhythm City and Zabalaza – not forgetting her living her Idols SA dream by making the Top 18 in 2012. Mosoma says: “I studied musical theatre at Tshwane University of Technology (TUT). Our course prepared us for the entertainment industry, as a whole. As a performer you need to be able to put your fingers in many pies if you want to succeed.” And that’s clearly what she’s been doing. On being cast as Mother Nature in The Smurfs Live on Stage – Smurfs Save Spring, she says: “My agent sent me an e-mail informing me of the audition. I then prepared for it and went through.”  Of course, for those who grew up watching The Smurfs, Mother Nature was not a character in the series nor the movies. Mosoma reveals: “She is a new character adapted for the stage show. She is a loving, nurturing and infectiously happy character who adores the Smurfs.”
The musical includes all our favourites from Papa Smurf, Clumsy Smurf, Brainy Smurf to Smurfette and our favourite villain, Gargamel. In this production, Gargamel is hell-bent on eradicating Spring, which sees our cute blue heroes swing into action to save the day. 
Mosoma reveals: “We have a phenomenal cast of industry professionals. Even though our rehearsal period was shorter than what we usually have to put together a musical, everyone from the cast and crew has pulled together and worked super hard.” She adds: “It’s a trip down memory lane for the parents as The Smurfs was a cartoon many adults in my generation grew up with. For the kids it’ll be an afternoon filled with laughter and excitement.” On the physical demands of this role, she admits: “I’ve done more physically taxing shows in the past, though I would say that the three shows a day won’t be too easy.” Having done many musicals, Mosoma reveals why she enjoys the medium: “I am a trained musical theatre performer so I have an understanding of the demands and requirements of my profession. That’s one of the reasons why I love what I do so much.”
What’s next? She says: “After The Smurfs I’ll be going to Hong Kong with the South African cast of Priscilla Queen of the Desert. Then I’ll be doing a short tour to Hong Kong and Dubai with the Cape Town Opera’s Mandela Trilogy.” The Smurfs Live on Stage – Smurfs Save Spring is a 90-minute show at the Theatre of Marcellus at Emperors Palace, Johannesburg. * It runs from Thursday to July 30 at 10am, 2pm and 6pm. Tickets cost R150 and are available at Computicket or the Emperors Palace box office 
on 011 928 1297/ 1213.  @Debash_Bev  IOL