LONDON – Just the mere mention of Keshav Maharaj’s name grabbed Morné Morkel’s attention. He waved his right index finger animatedly at the interviewer, saying: “I’m very happy that you actually brought up Keshav.” No question had yet been put forward, but that didn’t bother Morkel. “I’m going to answer that question for you ... the whole (fast bowling) unit can thank Keshav. “For him to bowl exceptionally well, keep up an end to allow all the seamers to rotate, it’s something this team desperately needed,” said Morkel. The big fast bowler didn’t play alongside Maharaj when the left-arm spinner made his debut in Perth last November. In fact, Morkel watched from the sidelines until the first Test against New Zealand in March as Maharaj very quickly established himself in the starting team. By the time of that match in Dunedin, Maharaj felt like the team’s primary spinner - it was only his fifth Test. And by the next Test in Wellington, he firmly stamped his name in the position. There he picked up 6/40 in New Zealand’s second innings, helping propel South Africa to a series win. Morkel picked up five wickets in that match; Maharaj won Man of the Match honours for claiming eight. Maharaj praised the quicks, saying he just took advantage of the pressure they created. The quicks - well, Morkel anyway - have been effusive in their praise of the left-arm spinner, with Morkel paying particular attention to Maharaj’s work ethic. “He works so hard ... he’s the guy who’s on the early bus, works endless hours with (spin bowling coach) Claude Henderson.” Maharaj out-bowled his two England counterparts, Moeen Ali and Liam Dawson, at Trent Bridge. He claimed match figures of 6/63 in that 340-run win. Moeen and Dawson’s combined effort was 5/167. That Maharaj should produce such returns on what was essentially a good track for the seamers speaks volumes about how rapidly he’s grown as an international cricketer - and yes, all the hard work he has put in. “I’m very grateful to Hendo,” says Maharaj. “We’ve been working on control of the ball, trying to spin it more. Tactically, him and Prasanna (Agoram, the team’s video analyst) have a very good relationship. “Through that they’re always trying to get me to understand batsmen’s thoughts. A lot of time is spent away from the nets, behind a computer working out game plans.” Like the rest of the team, Lord’s was a chastening experience for Maharaj. The English batsmen, particularly Joe Root and Ben Stokes, attacked him ruthlessly in that first Test, the first time Maharaj had really been put under pressure since making his debut. But he adjusted well, and in admittedly helpful conditions, on a spinning track, returned in England’s second innings and picked up four wickets. “I’m just trying to stop the game, and hold up an end and the seamers can get the wickets,” Maharaj remarks about his game plan. Thirty-six wickets from just nine Tests suggests he’s a darn sight better than merely a bowler who holds up an end. There are parts of his game he knows needs improving but for now he’s a genuine asset in all three areas - his bowling, of course, but he’s also a superb and nimble outfielder, while his batting has promise. “I want to be a three-in-one cricketer ... I haven’t shown my true potential with the bat, I’ve been selling myself short in that department. I’m just trying to do my best with the ball and in the field. It’s rewarding for a bowler to see good fielding, I’m just trying to do the same when others are bowling.” Like many of his teammates, during this lengthy period between the second and third Tests, Maharaj has chosen to take a complete break from the game. While Quinton de Kock and Hashim Amla have gone home, and will return tomorrow, Maharaj is heading up to Manchester to spend time with friends he made there when playing for a club called Nelson in the Lancashire League in 2015. “Just some much needed down-time," he says. "I’ve got to get off my feet because it’s been a long two Tests.” From Monday, it’s back to work, and one admirer will be particularly glad to have him alongside. “The way he’s played since his debut, a lot of credit goes to Keshav, the control he provides, and good quality spin. I’m a massive fan,” said Morkel. “It’s nice to see that a guy who’s putting in the effort, all the hours, it’s paying off. That’s a motivation for all of us not to sit on our, er, backsides.” @shockerhess  Saturday Star  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 