Johannesburg - South African racing drivers and riders flew the flag high with a slew of podium places in various categories overseas this past weekend. Raoul Hyman converted pole position to his first GP3 victory at the Red Bull Ring on Sunday, narrowly beating Giuliano Alesi (son of F1 star Jean) by just under one second. The Durban-born 21-year old, who drives for the Spanish Campos team, scored the win in front of a huge crowd at the Austrian Grand Prix curtain raiser, and now sits sixth in the prestigious championship with six rounds remaining. Durbanite Mathew Scholtz continued his dominance of the MotoAmerica Superstock 1000 series with a double win at Laguna Seca. The Yamaha rider has won five of 12 races so far in 2017, stood on the podium 11 times and now leads the American championship by a cool 43 points. Kelvin van der Linde, who jets back and forth between various championships in Europe and Australia, came second in Race 2 at the Townsville round of the Australian GT Championship. The 21-year old shares his Valvoline-sponsored Audi R8 with Aussie driver Geoff Emery in this series, which hosts three races at each race weekend. The duo also placed fourth in Races 1 and 3. Van der Linde's next race is the Spa Francorchamps 24 Hour endurance, where he’ll partner up with German team-mates Pierre Kaffer and Frank Stippler in an LMS-spec R8 similar to the one in which he won the Nurburgring 24 Hour in May. South African Stephen Simpson and Russo-Canadian team-mate Misha Goikhberg drove their JDC-Miller Oreca prototype to second place at Mosport Park in Canada on Sunday. It was the team’s second runner-up placing in the WeatherTech IMSA Sportscar championship, after narrowly missing a win at Watkins Glen last time out. Simpson will be back in action next weekend at Limerock Park for the eighth of 12 rounds in the season. Jonathan Aberdein, son of successful touring car driver Chris, came second in the first of three German Formula 4 races at Oschersleben on Saturday. The Capetonian then came seventh and ninth in the next two races, and now sits 10th in the championship with three rounds to go. Johannesburg-based Steven Odendaal finished third in the second European Moto2 race at Valencia on Sunday. It was the 24-year old’s first podium of the year in the series, which has four rounds to go. Odendaal is third in the championship. Nick Adcock, who won the 2015 South African Endurance Championship, and who now periodically races overseas, brought his CWS Racing Ginetta G55 home second in class and fifth overall at the Misano 24-Hour race on Sunday. Adcock shares the Ginetta with British team owner Colin White, American JT Coupal and Dane Patrik Mathiesen, and the four-man team now leads the SP3-GT4 championship with two rounds to go at Barcelona and Spa Francorchamps. Star Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter   Follow Jesse Adams on Twitter @PoorBoyLtd 