The Winter holidays are upon us. While some families may not be able to take holidays with their children, here are some day activities to be done while in Durban. Fun World Amusement Park Besides the scenic beach views that Durban has to offer, hidden among those is the amusement park that has become a favourite for both young and old. The rides will transport you into a world of magic and fun, allowing parents to unwind while their children engage in an assortment of activities at reasonable prices. One of the favourites is the cable car that provides an aerial view of the beachfront and its crowds. It is definitely a selfie worthy moment for the entire family. Where: 78 OR Tambo Parade, North Beach Price: Entrance free. The prices start from R20 per ride. Contact: 031 332 9776 Ushaka Marine World Ushaka Marine World has something for everyone, and is ideal for the family. Its cost effective prices can cater to an adventure seeker, a beach bum and marine fans. It first opened its doors in 2004, and has fast positioned itself as a key attraction on the Durban Golden Mile. It boasts Sea World, Wet 'n Wild, Ushaka Beach and adventure water sports like snorkeling, ocean walking and shark cage diving. Where: 1 King Shaka Avenue, Point Price: From R25. Contact: 031 328 8000. Durban Green Corridor There are various sites in Durban that offers exhilarating excursions for families at low prices. The Durban Green Corridor hosts tours in areas such as Inanda, Kwamashu and Blue Lagoon. One of the most popular ones are the Mzinyathi Falls in Inanda. In the early 19th century , the Oadi people who fled from the Zulu king Dingane settled at Mzinyathi Valley, where they set up their homestead.  There is also a small community of Rastafarians who live in caves below the falls that have attracted many international visitors.  The place has been inducted by eThekwini Municipality as a tourist attraction along the Inanda Heritage Route. Prices: Entry: R20. Tours start from R50pp (entry does not apply to tours). Contact:031 322 6027 or 073 088 9874.