On Thursday, 13 July an exclusive group of media and influencers experienced the two stylish and sophisticated properties which make up the Radisson Blu hotel presence in Johannesburg. Each hotel with its own unique personality, from its iconic décor and design to its exclusive facilities and decadent cuisines, delivered to guests by Radisson Blu’s world class hospitality, has earned the brand its industry heavy weight title. Commencing at the Sandton Gautrain Station, guests were given a warm and enthusiastic welcome by the Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel team and asked to submit their predictions of the number of steps between the station and the hotel. This kicked off the event on an energetic and thrilling note as the suspense-filled guests counted the 55 steps on route to the hotel. Maintaining the infectious energy of this stylish hotel, guests were taken to the hotel’s Pool Deck to enjoy the ambiance and refreshing drinks. The next stop was the hotel’s on-site restaurant, Central One to taste their freshly launched scrumptious menu before embarking on an exciting treasure hunt within a few of the hotel rooms and ending off with a fun salsa dance. “The hotel’s most unique feature, aside from its vibrant energy, is definitely the convenient location, being the closest hotel to the Sandton Gautrain Station. It was great having the guests literally experience the close proximity in such an interactive way,” said Werner Geere, General Manager of Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel. “We were also able to showcase the unique spaces within the hotel and the unique identities they each have, from our restaurant and pool deck to our exquisite rooms.” The final stop, was the iconic Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton, also situated in Africa’s most affluent square mile. Greeted with champagne and delectable food pairing, guests were taken on an exclusive tour of the hotel, beginning with the dynamic meeting and events spaces, which ranges from elegant board rooms to a sophisticated 96-seater auditorium. In between viewing the rest of the unique spots within the hotel, guests enjoyed a food and wine pairing on the hotel’s famous Pool Deck, overlooking the sweeping views of the city. To culminate the jam-packed day, hearty meals were served to the guests in the hotel’s premium Business Class Lounge, accompanied by a Gluhwein and delectable dessert station. Volkan Vural, General Manager of Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton said, “Our mantra, as with all our hotels is simply to make every moment matter by delivering excellence when it comes to service. I’m honoured that we were able to showcase our stylish and sophisticated hotel, its unique facilities, along with our world-reknowned hospitality and look forward to welcoming them back soon.”