With the country and the rest of the world taking time out to remember the former statesman and his contribution to the culture of peace and forgiveness, we thought to put together a list of some of the interesting tourist destinations that can be visited in the country that are in part or full dedicated to Madiba's legacy. 1. The Mandela House 
Located at number 8115 Orlando West in Soweto the house was one of the homes of the former statesman and his family from the period of 1946 into the 1990s. The house is located in Vilakazi Street, which has become a popular tourist destination. It is still the only street in the world that has been the home of two Nobel Peace Prize winners. 2.  The Nelson Mandela capture site in Howick This traditionally simple piece of land gained its significance when Madiba was captured by the Apartheid police after having been able to successfully evade them for 17 months. In 1962 on August 5,  Mandela was in Howick KwaZulu-Natal driving along the R103 when the car he was travelling in was flagged down. He had been from Groutville, another part of KZN to give feedback to the then ANC president Inkosi uAlbert Luthuli about his African travels. The site is constantly being renovated, and is currently a tourist attraction that features a memorial site that takes you through the life of Madiba, and there are other activities available on the property. There is also a restaurant and store that sells products that are handmade and are from predominantly job creation projects, co-ops and small enterprises. 3. Robben Island Here Mandela spent the bulk of his 27 years in prison. The prison that is located off of the coast of the Western Cape in the middle of the ocean. It was active from the 1400s when it was used as a prison for rebel sailors, until 1991 when the last of the political prisoners that were arrested under the apartheid regime were released. Mandela spent 18 years of his 27 years in prison on the island. His prison cell/identity  number 466/64 become a popular with a series of yearly benefit concerts that were held with the same name. Robben Island is now a popular tourist destination that offers members of the public several tours a day.  Former US president Barak Obama  walks from Section B, prison cell No. 5, where former South African president Nelson Mandela spent 18 years of his 27-year prison term locked up by the former apartheid government, on Robben Island. Photo: AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster 4. Nelson Mandela Statue Union Buildings Dubbed the tallest figurative bronze sculpture of the former statesman, the statue that towers over the country's administrative capital the Union Buildings was unveiled by president Jacob Zuma in 2013 and weighs more than 3.5 tonnes.  It was created by South African sculptors André Prinsloo and Ruhan Janse van Vuuren. It is a popular photo site, with tourists local and international savouring the opportunity to sit at the feet of the father of the nation. 5.Nelson Mandela Museum The museum which functions from two sites namely in Madiba's hometown of Mvezo, Qunu and the Bhunga Building in Mthatha. Both sites feature semi permanent installations that take the visitor through the political life of Madiba, his home life and all the things that made him take. For instance the museum features a semi-permanent installation called "Luthuli and Mandela in conversation" which is a collaboration between the Mandela Museum and the Chief Albert Luthuli museum that's located in Stanger. The exhibition has a series of images of interactions between the two men and as well as moments captured through  video, audio and written pieces. An image of the Mandela-Luthuli installation in the Mandela museums. The Installation is a collaboration between the two museums. Photo: Nelson Mandela Museum 