The IOC lavished praise Wednesday on Los Angeles and Paris in an evaluation of the two cities' bid to host the 2024 Olympic Games. "Members of the Evaluation Commission have used the terms 'forward-looking', 'innovative', 'vibrant' and 'cool' to describe the Los Angeles candidature, and 'historical', 'cultural', 'iconic' and 'amazing backdrops' for that of Paris," said Patrick Baumann, chair of the 2024 Evaluation Commission and member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC). "However, whatever the description, it truly is a tale of two great Olympic cities. The two projects are different in nature, but each city presents a proposal which is genuinely authentic and reflects the best of what each has to offer." The two bid cities were left beaming at the complimentary report. LA 2024 chairman Casey Wasserman said: "We are delighted that our efforts have resonated so clearly with the IOC Evaluation Commission." Tony Estanguet, co-chair of Paris 2024, said: "We are absolutely delighted that the IOC's report highlights that Paris would be an excellent host of the 2024 Games and is ready to deliver a wonderful celebration of Olympic sport with real and meaningful legacy." The IOC report noted that in line with the reforms of Olympic Agenda 2020, both Los Angeles and Paris are planning to use a record number of existing and temporary venues, a first in Olympic history. "Such proposals will lead to significant cost reductions in organising the Olympic Games and make them more sustainable," it said. The commission's report will be the key reference document for IOC members in the lead-up to the 2024 Candidate City Briefing on July 11-12 in Lausanne, with the final vote scheduled to take place during the 131st IOC session in Lima on September 13. "Los Angeles is one of the most entertaining sports and leisure destinations on the planet; Paris has a history second to none," said Baumann. "On any given day, people around the globe enjoy Hollywood offerings of great storytelling and showcasing technology, while at the same time they dream of visiting Paris, one of the world’s most dazzling tourist destinations. "With the support, enthusiasm and passion of their citizens and athletes, Los Angeles and Paris have presented the best of their cities. And their best is as good as it can possibly get for the Olympic Games." IOC bosses have already recommended that hosting rights for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics be awarded together, virtually assuring that the two rival bidders will both get the Games. Thomas Bach the IOC president said the proposal had been "unanimously" endorsed by the executive, adding the IOC had a "golden opportunity" with two "great cities" competing for 2024 and did not want to turn either away. Interest in hosting Olympics has faded, with cities increasingly reluctant to take on the vast expense. Assuming the dual award recommendation is approved at the July  session in Lausanne, the body's main meeting in Lima will then choose the host city for not only 2024 but also 2028. "With both Los Angeles and Paris, the Olympic Games are in very good hands," Baumann said in Wednesday's report. "The Evaluation Commission firmly believes that both Los Angeles and Paris are more than capable of hosting outstanding Olympic and Paralympic Games. "Their candidatures have put the Olympic Movement in a win-win situation with very little to separate the two projects. In other words, we have two projects which are great for the respective cities and two cities which are great for the Olympic Games." AFP