CAPE TOWN - The Mother City's four NFD teams are hard at work in preparation for the new season, though there is a strong possibility that, when the campaign gets under way next month, there may be just three teams. Milano United are considering an offer for their NFD franchise from a consortium up north. Indications are that the deal is close to being complete. The Grassy Park-based club has, nevertheless, continued its pre-season programme, despite the uncertainty, with new coach Dougie Williams calling the shots. Stellenbosch FC, Cape Town All Stars and Ubuntu Cape Town have new faces in charge of their team. Stellenbosch have promoted Steve Barker from assistant coach to head coach, former Cape Town Spurs, Kaizer Chiefs and Bafana Bafana left-back David Kannemeyer is at the helm of All Stars, and former Bafana captain Roger Links is in charge of Ubuntu. The Cape Winelands team’s big catch for the new campaign is 30-year-old forward Ryan Chapman. Kannemeyer is in his first test as a head coach - and he is hoping to bring all his knowledge and experience to bear on the NFD club. On board and signed for All Stars already is 29-year-old striker Danian Wareley, who has been at Ajax Cape Town, Milano, FC AK, Hanover Park, Ikapa Sporting and George Dearnaley’s Magic FC in the Second Division. If the name Wareley is familiar, it should be. The striker is the son of former Norway Parks and Santos hard man, Deon “Jan” Wareley. All Stars are looking to beef up their squad further and, in friendlies against Ajax and Cape Town City recently, Kannemeyer was running the rule over two former PSL players on trial - Ruzaigh Gamildien and Aiden Jenniker. Over at Ubuntu, Links is continuing to put in place his philosophy as he looks to make the newbies competitive in their debut season. The former Battswood and Bafana defender has ex-Ajax youngster Olwethu Nguye training with the team, and the coach is hoping to arrange a deal to bring the talented midfielder to Ubuntu. Cape Times   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 