The Panorama Route is a stretch of road in Mpumalanga that links the majority of the province's most breath taking sites. The route starts at the foot of the Long Tom Pass just outside Lydenburg, following the natural descent from the Great Escarpment to the Lowveld, and ending at the border of the Mpumalanga and Limpopo provinces near the Echo Caves. The route also hosts the largest man-made forest of pine and eucalyptus plantations that stretch along the route. The drive itself is therapeutic, not to mention beautiful. A post shared by Annerisca Monster (@annerisca) on Jul 14, 2017 at 1:41pm PDT Blyde River Canyon and Three Rondavels Known as the third largest canyon in the world and the most green of the three, the Blyde River Canyon is a sight to behold. On the day we visited locals who told us we were lucky that the area was not completely covered by mist, a stroll away from the Canyon are the Three Rondavels. The mountain formation was created due to erosion. The soft underlying tone of the rock came away and the slate and quartzite shaped the rock formation. The legend behind the formation is that they were named after a Bapedi chief who defeated the Swazis in war. The flat-topped peak was named Mapjaneng ('the chief') after a legendary Bapedi chief, Maripi Mashile, while the three peaks are named after his three wives (from left to right) – Magabolie, Mogoladikwe and Maseroto. Bourke's Luck Potholes  An extremely spiritual site, the potholes were formed by years of flowing water. The site is named after a prospector, Tom Bourke, who hoped to find gold at this site. He was unsuccessful, but other prospectors had more luck in the area. The Treur River meets Blyde River at this site, and locals have named these rivers the river of sadness and the river of happiness, and believe if they wash their feet in the river, their fortunes will change. If you look to the bottom of the clear water, you see hundreds of coins that were thrown into the water as visitors made a wish. Be prepared for a little walk though, its a beautiful experience that's worth it. A post shared by Dicas da Africa do Sul 🇧🇷 (@southafrica_tips) on Jun 20, 2017 at 12:57pm PDT Accomodation Mpumalanga has variety of options available. From guest houses to hotels, catering and self catering options, all those are covered. When is your next trip to Mpumalanga? Visit Mpumalanga Tourism here for more info.