Johannesburg - It’s billed as South Africa’s premier trucking and fleet management expo, and it certainly seems there will be more to see at TruckX and FleetX, on 12 and 13 July at Kyalami, than just oversized Tonka toys. Nevertheless, there will be plenty of hardware on show, starting with the chance to experience the SA debut of a new truckmaker, Eicher, which will launch its medium-duty Pro3008 truck with ‘Ride and Drive’ laps on the dynamic handling track. Toyota is offering up to R50 000 show discount on Hilux bakkies, which you can use for accessories, or to customise your Hilux to suit your fleet requirements; there will also be similar discounts of R21 000 on selected Corolla models. CNG holdings will have its compressed natural gas-powered vehicles on display, offering to convert your forklifts from liquid propane to compressed natural gas fueling, promising fuel and maintenance cost savings of as much as 20 percent. Safety first Road Eye Systems has a new collision avoidance system called Mobileye 630, as well as Shield+ for large vehicles - and will be announcing at the expo the name of the first insurance company to offer you a 15 percent if you have a Mobileye in the vehicle. You’ll also be able to test drive a vehicle with a Mobileye, and see for yourself how it works. The Ctrack stand, meanwhile, will be demonstrating its fleet management software with a live feed of what’s happening on the dynamic test track. Make your brand grand Everybody wants a colourful truck in their corporate livery - but to do that the conventional way amounts to a custom spray-job over an enormous area. That’s beyond most truck-owners in the present economic climate, which is why Xtreme inkworX and Avery Dennison will launch their new RentaWrap at TruckX. With RentaWrap you pay a deposit and can then pay off the balance of the cost over 12 or 24 months; Xtreme Inkworx will be giving away a wrap worth R12 600 at the show - just drop your business card in the box on their stand. Are you up for this? The SA Express Parcel Association’s Speed in a Suit competition will see competitors in vans provided by Hyundai vying to see who can get round a 1.1km test route in the quickest time while using the least fuel, measured in real time with Ctrack telematics. Conferencing Industry experts from Vodacom, Sasol, Master Drive, VSC Solutions and the Road Transport Management System will discuss the impact of the Internet of Things; truck safety and compliance, clean fuels, training and telematics on 12 July, while topics on 13 July will include trends in mobility, data management, leadership and an AARTO/freeway update. IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 