The umembeso (where a groom gives gifts to the bride-to-be’s parents and family before the wedding) took place at Minnie’s home in Durban North under heavy security. The road where Minnie’s house is situated was guarded by security personnel who directed guests where to park and briefed them on the house rules. Guests were barred from taking pictures, especially those of the couple, only a TV crew was allowed to film. It has been reported that the couple has sold their wedding rights to MultiChoice for R6 million. Guests sat in and outside the beautifully decorated marquee which was erected in the yard. However, it still didn’t accommodate everyone. In attendance was businesswoman Basetsana Kumalo, her sister Johanna Mukoki, Bheki Cele’s wife Thembeka with her friend, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s wife Noma, Metro FM DJ Unathi Msengana, TV host Criselda Dudumashe, Ukhozi FM’s Dudu Khoza, actress Jessica Nkosi, singer Khanya Mthethwa, Zakes Bantwini and his wife, Nandi, sports presenter Andile Ncube and former Miss South Africa Tansey Coetzee. The programme director, socialite Marbleh, reminded guests every two minutes that no photos or videos were allowed. There was even an instance when a guest’s phone rang and she was warned by security. They made sure that no one sneaked photos of the couple, or even took selfies. As the formalities got under way, Marbleh provided shots of whisky, which he referred to as “tea” for the guests. Gifts varied from luxury blankets and traditional pinafores to head wraps, with her mother Queen receiving a gas stove and Le Creuset pots. Queen and her relatives couldn’t contain their excitement when they were presented with gifts. They ululated and sang traditional songs. All of this took place while Minnie was kept inside the house as is tradition. She only came out when her family gave gifts to her fiancé’s family. Minnie’s family had also hired groups of traditional dancers for entertainment, and they led her into the marquee to sit next to Jones, who could not stop smiling. Minnie wore an elegant, mermaid white dress and covered her long curly weave with a traditional fertility hat. Guests feasted on steamed bread, samp, fried fish, tripe, lamb and chicken curry. The traditional ceremony lived up to her name Minenhle because it was indeed a beautiful one. Sunday Tribune 