Since City Bakes debuted on May 26, Hollywood has been to nine other cities and his last stop was Cape Town. What did The Great British Bake-Off judge see, do and taste 
in Cape Town? He was definitely busy and he wasn’t doing it all alone. Hollywood was joined by chefs Siba Mtongana and Reuben Riffel, who shared the best of the city’s bakes with him. At the One & Only, Riffel  taught Hollywood about hosting a 
braai, where Hollywood oversaw the making of a braai pie and koeksisters. “Here it is, my bru!” Hollywood exclaims when he hands Riffel the braai pie he made. In a short preview of the episode, Hollywood is shown on screen describing our cuisine as: “A bit of Britishness, a bit of Dutch, but it’s all South African”. Mtongana takes him to Charly’s Bakery for something sweet. Charly’s Bakery is the home of Charly’s Cake Angels, situated in District 6. They specialise in designer cakes for all occasions, as well as a range of fun and bright cupcakes, petit fours, cookies and other cheesecaskes. It’s a family-run business started by Charly and Jacqui Biess in 1989. Hollywood gets to see how the Cake Angels pipe some of their world-famous cakes and cookies. Then he makes his way to Jason Bakery in Bree Street. Jason Bakery sells speciality pastries, breads, hot breakfast dishes and gourmet coffee. Getting into the kitchen, Jason Lilley shows Hollywood some of his famous pastries like the doughssants, that contains flavours like Jack Daniel’s, peanut butter and bacon. Hollywood is passionate about bread, though, and when he steps into BREADrev in the city’s Harris Road, an economic empowerment and skills development project in the city, his eyes light up and he gets his hands dirty. Since 2013, BREADrev has been building ovens and teaching people to bake. They create space for economic community, teaching people the skills to start their own businesses. Hollywood meets Jeremy Barty, who started the organisation that builds and sells wood-fired rocket ovens and develops spaces that enable people to learn the art of artisan baking. Hollywood gets involved. He brings out the flour and bakes a Chelsea bun. Thembile Gcukumeni set up a bakery in Gugulethu in 2014 and is one of BREADrev’s success stories. She lent Hollywood a hand with making his bun. City Bakes is on DStv channel 175 (Food Network) tonight at 8pm.