Johannesburg - Fikile Mbalula has warned the ANC to be wary of those who want to split the organisation. 
Independent Media understands that Mbalula, who was addressing ANC delegates during a closed session at national policy conference in Nasrec, Joburg, on Saturday, described those attempting to splinter the party as “split purveyors”. 
Mbalula, who is police minister and an ANC national executive committee member, slammed the veterans, saying the ANC should be “alive to the fact that even within us, some would like to rule forever”.
“Would history write about this gathering as a basket of political contortionists? Do we want to be the splitters or unifiers? It is that simple yet serious," Mbalula charged.
Mbalula was presenting a document on the party’s renewal. The ANC has spent the last two days doing an introspection. His document followed a brutal and honest assessment by the party’s secretary general, Gwede Mantashe, in which he decried the corruption within the party's ranks and the influence of President Jacob Zuma’s friends, the Guptas, in state affairs.
The party’s leadership had a fallout with the veterans after they boycotted the policy Indaba. Mbalula also called for unity in the party. “We must address critical weaknesses of the ANC and the question of the optimal mobilisation of the motive forces for change.”
He also slammed the MK Council led by former Communications Minister and SANDF member general Sphiwe Nyanda, saying they were a group of people chasing after resources and not genuine in their demands.
Zuma, according to sources, nodded throughout Mbalula’s presentation. Zuma too slammed the veterans at the opening of the gathering, saying some where not as strong as they thought they were. 
Mbalula also came down hard on delegates for singing songs that sow divisions within the party. At the start of the conference, supporters of Zuma and his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa sang songs backing the two leaders, going against a code of conduct.
“Let us not be obsessed with our personal political ambitions that we are prepared to gossip about other comrades – even worse are those amongst us who are prepared to deny policies of the ANC like radical economic transformation existed prior to current diversions,” said Mbalula. 
He also took a swipe at the ANC in Gauteng and SACP leader Blade Nzimande on the debate on the so-called white monopoly capital
“People who claim white monopoly capital is not an ANC diagnosis of several decades are political contortionists hoping our people would not decipher the political venom of their poisonous tongues Tambo spoke of," he said in his closed presentation. 
He called for acquisition of land without compensation in special cases. He cited Zimbabwe's land reform, saying that country was in its current crisis because of the delay in land redress, and finally in the wrong manner land restitution was done. Political Bureau