Bujumbura - Burundian President Pierre Nkurunziza has travelled outside his country for the first time in more than two years. Sources told the African News Agency (ANA) Nkurunziza was making a state visit in the Ngara District, in the province of Kagera in neighbouring Tanzania. He reportedly went there by the road, passing through the border point in the eastern part of Burundi. This would be the first time Nkurunziza has left Burundi since he survived a coup on 13 May 2015. Nkurunziza is reported to be heading a strong delegation of governmental and army high ranking officials. Five ministers, including the Minister of Public Security, Alain Guillaume Bunyoni, and the Foreign Affairs Minister, Alain Aimé Nyamitwe, are part of the delegation. Nkurunziza is set to meet his Tanzanian counterpart, President John Pombe Magufuli. The aim of the visit is to strengthen bilateral relations and friendship between the Burundian and Tanzanian people, according to presidential sources. Back in May 2015, a group of military officials had tried to topple the government while Nkurunziza was taking part in a Heads of State summit on Burundi in Tanzania’s capital, Dar es Salaam. The current visit comes after more than 15,000 refugees based in Nduta camp in the Kibondo district, in the province of Kigoma, in western Tanzania, have declared their willingness to return to their homeland, following the lack of food assistance to the refugees. "It is the hunger which forces us to leave this camp," Nyandwi Emmanuel, father to seven children, said. He pointed out that the food aid had been considerably reduced in all the camps in Tanzania. The 60-year-old added that most of the old persons and the children had little food security. "I prefer to go and die in my country more than dying in a foreign one," he told reporters. Other said they had to get back to Burundi for security reasons. Simbaruhije Judith, a mother of two children, told the African News Agency (ANA) she feared for her safety. "Nearly 10 Burundian refugees have been killed by unknown people in only three months in the camp or near it," she pointed out. Tanzania shelters nearly 240,000 Burundian refugees, grouped in three camps since the outbreak of the Burundian political crisis in 2015. African News Agency  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 