This is the view of former Miss South Africa and business woman, Basetsana Kumalo, who is a close family friend and the writer of the foreword for Somizi’s book, Dominoes, that is due to be released soon. “Often people think being black equates to mediocrity, but Somizi has re-written that book,” said Kumalo, adding that Mhlongo’s work ethic was “second to none” and that the book was not sugar-coated. The intimate launch of Dominoes was in Hyde Park Corner’s Exclusive Books. A  deluxe edition will be coming out in a month’s time. In the book, Somizi reveals how, when the doctor told him that he only had a few days to live, a former partner of his dropped everything to help save his life. “He is the epitome of what true unconditional love is - before, during and after,” writes Somizi about a man by the name of Tom Mkhwanazi, whom he will elaborate on in an additional chapter of his book Dominoes: Unbreakable Spirit. Somizi said more than anything else he just wanted the book to be honest. “When I read the book I could see myself speaking. It was a beautiful collaboration.” He worked with journalist Lesley Mofokeng, who said that when Somizi initially called him about the project he suggested the title be “Whoo Shem” after the Sarafina actor’s popular phrase. Those at the launch got to see Somizi’s authentic side. He  gave guests an intimate and sincere account of his journey in writing the book, and the few who were around fell in love with the star all over again . Guests congregated in the bookstore’s Social Kitchen and Bar Restaurant, and Somizi’s Idols’ colleague Unathi Msengana, who managed the proceedings, added her flair to the event. The third member of the Idols’ judging musketeers, Randall Abrahams, was sitting at a distance, apparently shying away from the limelight as usual. When asked for a photograph , he politely declined, saying: “What is important is that Somizi knows I am here and that is all that matters. Good for him.” Somizi’s daughter, Bahumi, close friend TT Mbha, former soccer star Jimmy Tau and manager Thato Matuka were among the many present. Others in the mix were Cassper Nyovest, Jessica Nkosi, Criselda Dudumashe and Nambitha Mpumlwana also came out in support of the much-loved Idols judge. Somizi’s mother, the legendary actress Mary Mhlongo, was also present which put the biggest smile on the face of the man of the night. So sweet. Somizi’s book sheds more light on who he really is. Isn’t it great to see our celebs making great strides? And celebrating Som’ Som’ was great. Various speakers took to the stage to speak about the book. Kumalo said: “When Somizi asked me to write the foreword, he said ‘you know me, we’ve come a long way’. “I was not thinking about what I was saying, but it flowed through me. There was an energy about it.” She also said she resonated easily with the book, which made it that more personal. The launch ended just as it had started - promptly - giving attendees the time to get home before 9pm, which was a bit of relief for some, considering how late such events tend to end. Mr Dominoes himself, Brian Temba, sang his famous song, Dominoes, to wrap up the evening. @AmandaMaliba The Sunday Independent