Cape Town -&nbsp;If there is one thing anyone can get out of watching a group of talented youngsters at a rehearsal for Sister Act, is that theatre is not merely about acting. While for years viewers associated Sister Act with the 1992 film, starring Whoopi Goldberg, these proteges in their early twenties have made the latest theatrical revival their own by adding their own personalities. &quot;There is a very strong reference point. I say to these kids - don't reference Whoopi Goldberg - literally find your own version of it,&quot; director Paul Griffiths said. &quot;Its about acknowledging your own value. Even if someone is holding a gun to your head, you cannot devalue me,&quot; Griffiths added, while talking about the message the play ultimately tries to convey. The central themes that ran in this story was kindness, love and journey of self-realisation. What is immediately apparent upon seeing these young actors and actresses perform, is how invested they have become in the story, both in that of the play and that of their own journeys with it.&nbsp; The energy and enthusiasm on display here is nothing short of wonderful, and to listen to the stories of the people involved in the production was enlightening.&nbsp; One of the lead actresses, Nikita Williams explained how the story of Deloris, the main character of the play, resonated with her.&nbsp; &quot;Deloris is insecure with herself and you see at the end of the play how her facade falls away,&quot; she explained. Essentially the story of Deloris closely resembles that of the lives of both Nikita and Mpho, the second actress to play the lead.&nbsp; Deloris starts out as this girl who thinks she has it all figured out, but as the events of the play unfold she comes to understand the true value of friendship.&nbsp; It's a message that we can all relate to. While the play is set in the United States, the story of Deloris and the messages of the play fit well in a contemporary context, particularly for the&nbsp;young adult audiences of South Africa.&nbsp; Sister Act will be playing from July 12 to July 15 at Artscape Arena. Tickets are sold at R150 and are available through Artscape Dial-A-Seat and Computicket. IOL