Pioneer of all-inclusive worldwide sun and snow holidays, Club Med Southern Africa, has just launched their latest offering: Escapades. Escapades will allow Club Med clients the opportunity to combine their stay at a Club Med resort with a personalised multi-day tour with a guide or driver to discover the wonders of a region through unforgettable experiences. Travellers who book a Club Med holiday to their Kani and Finolhu resorts have the option to book an Escapade to Sri Lanka or Dubai; while those heading to Club Med’s Dominican Republic, Punta Cana and Cancun resorts have the option to book an Escapade to New York City. These are just a few, and more can be viewed here: https://www.clubmed.co.za/l/escapades Olivier Hannaert, MD for Club Med Southern Africa, is thrilled to bring Escapades to Club Med clients in South Africa. “Ever since Club Med was created in 1950, the brand has focused on two main elements: 1. Serving customers by continually anticipating their expectations through the professionalism and care of its G.O’s and the unique experience offered by its resorts. 2. To help customers rediscover themselves by reconnecting with family and friends, experiencing the exceptional, and doing things they thought out of their reach. In essence, to astonish and amaze customers through unforgettable moments. Our resorts offer memorable and world class experiences for all holiday preferences, and now with Escapades, travelers will have the opportunity to explore the world around them before or after their Club Med vacation – allowing us to offer a deeply fulfilling experience to all,” says Hannaert. In addition to launching Escapades, Club Med will have new resorts opening in Europe and Asia toward the end of 2017:  Club Med Grand Massive Samoëns Morillon Resort, French Alps In December 2017 Club Med will open its new flagship ski resort, Grand Massif Samoëns, in the French Alps (a 75 minute drive from Geneva and Annecy). Grand Massif Samoëns will offer direct access to two main skiing domains from the ski equipment room. The Massif is best for beginners, while Flaine, the fourth-largest ski area in France, is more suitable for intermediate and expert skiers. Guests will also be able to explore the Samoëns village by taking the express ski lift followed by shuttles to the city centre. In addition to accommodation and meals, the all-inclusive package cost will cover ski/snowboarding equipment, ski lessons and lift passes to five ski stations: Samoëns, Morillon, Les Carroz andFlaine and a natural ski park in Sixt Fer a Cheval. Snow adventures. Photo: Supplied  Club Med Tomamu Hokkaido, Japan Opening in November 2017, Club Med Tomamu offers a true winter wonderland experience, perfect for families, couples and singles. This grand ski-in/ski- out property features 322 modern Japanese chic rooms, a good selection of restaurants and bars, dedicated daily kids ski clubs, evening babysitting service plus a fitness centre. There is something for everyone on the pristine soft powder covered slopes, with ski and snowboard lessons for all skills and ages, snow trekking, snow rafting adventures, ice slides, ice bar, the Ice Village and Japan’s largest indoor wave pool. Club Med Arcs Extrême (French Alps) and Club Med Opio en Provence (France) have also just undergone a revamp, providing travellers with even better facilities – at the same Club Med they have come to know and love.