Here are some of the exiting shows to check out at this year's 969 Festival: The Full Morty: Join acclaimed theatre actor, TV actor, madly talented vocalist and professional k*k talker Mortimer Williams as he discovers the unchartered territory which fascinates us all the mind of the South African male. Stand-up comedy meets cabaret in this hilarious show as Morty entertains us with stories and songs that demonstrate what makes the SA man tick.On at the Amphitheatre on July 28 at 9pm. Black: In the officious letter from the SA government, Zara learns that documents once sealed and implicating her father in an act committed against the anti-apartheid movement decades earlier, will soon be released to the public. This show will be at the Amphitheatre on July 26 and 29 at 7.30pm. Jittery Citizens: Brings sharp-as-a-tack, improvisational comedy to South Africa. Whether it be training top executives on how to Present Like a Pro, or solidifying relationships through an Improv team-building experience, or performing hilarious off-the-cuff comedy on various stages across the country, Jittery Citizens is guaranteed to invoke spontaneous laughter from even the most serious audiences. Catch it at the Amphitheatre on July 23 at 5pm. With Nothing But Silence: This is a response to the historically dense present: A socio-political moment that is laden with the compacting of intercepting, unresolved and recurring patterns of oppression. The interplay of live performing bodies, dialogue, the production of sound and the placing of this “dance-theatre” work in a design environment evokes the “slow rhythms of growth and decay” around us and becomes the basis of a work that tackles the volatility of the imploding present. This play is on at the Main Theatre on July 15 at 7.30pm. Dada Masilo’s Giselle: Masilo interrogates this well-known narrative, digging deeper to create strong emotional and psychological foundations for the characters. This version is set in rural South Africa, exploring traditional African rituals and ceremonies, with Philip Miller’s composition using African voice, drums and the cello, violin, harp, referencing Adolphe Adam’s original ballet score. Don’t miss at the Main Theatre on July 29 at 8.30pm. *The 969 Festival runs from July 15 until 30 at Wits Theatre. Tickets can be purchased at: www.webtickets.co.za or at the Wits Theatre Box Office. IOL