YOU VE got your outfit ready and your hair appointment has been made, so it s time to shine. If you haven t an idea where to party tonight, here s a rundown of the biggest Durban July after-parties.&nbsp; Fact Durban Rocks: Starting at 6pm, just as the sun goes down, People s Park is expected to come alive with music and more music. Cassper Nyovest, AKA, Gemini Major &amp; Da Les, DJ Tira, Riky Rick, Duncan, Okmalumkoolkat, Sphe &amp; Naves, Black Motion, Babes Wodumo, Big Nuz, Naak Musiq, Kwesta, Lvovo, Sox, Culoe De Song, Distruction Boyz, Shimza, DJ Cleo, Junior De Rocka, DJ Fisherman, Cndo, Dream Team, DJ Gukwa and Prince Kaybee with MCs Slot, Vuzu s Dash and Somizi will entertain the crowds.&nbsp;Tickets cost between R250 and R2 000, and are available at Computicket.&nbsp; Cassper Nyovest is among a long list of stars expected to perform at the Fact Durban Rocks on Saturday night.&nbsp;Jack Daniel s Boomtown: While a marquee will host the Boomtown experience, during the day, while the races are on, the party will really begin in the evening with big sound and lighting, and an unrivalled artist line-up on stage.&nbsp;Origin Durban July Afterparty: Travelling just a little way away from the racecourse, the Origin nightclub on Clark Road, Umbilo, will get the party started at 7pm. Entertainment includes Cinimin, Kyle Cassim, Venture, Chris Taylor and many more. Tickets between R60 and R120, from Computicket.&nbsp;Tiger Tiger: Over at the Kings Park precinct, Tiger Tiger will host a block party starting at 8pm. Featured act is Chunda Munki. Tickets R100 at Computicket.&nbsp;Something by the beach: The Durban July All Black Sunday Soul Session, at the Pavilion Hotel on the beachfront, tones down the weekend with soulful music tomorrow at 6pm. Sentle Lehoko from Metro FM and Paul Mtirara from Radio 702, will entertain. Tickets R250, booking at Computicket.&nbsp;White Party Lifestyle: Also ending the frenzied Durban July weekend, the White Party Lifestyle event takes place on Sunday at the Virginia Airport at 5pm. Performers include Da Les, DJ Tira, Naak Musiq, Major League, Dr Peppa, Mixwell, Lullo Cafe, Sumbody, Ali and NZK. Tickets cost R150, via Computicket. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY