One-year-old Jeremiah was beaten, raped and stabbed to death, allegedly  by his mother’s boyfriend at their home in Salmander Street in Kensington on 12 June. The child’s mother, Abigail Ruiters, 30, and her 26-year-old boyfriend Ameeruddien Peters were arrested. Ruiters is charged with murder and child neglect, and Peters with murder and rape. On Monday, the boy's aunty Petina Timm, 33, accused Abigail’s father, Pastor Ronald Ruiters, of making them look bad by begging for money for Jeremiah’s funeral, and lying about the fact that he and his wife Gail were looking after Abigail’s remaining two children. She says Abigail and her brother Wesley Timm were together for 12 years and had three children together. Abigail is now pregnant with Peter’s child. “This is not a circus; this is no fame and fortune moment. This has actually struck our family as a tragedy. Hence we have not said anything until now,” says an angry Petina. “We are grieving, we lost a nephew and we will never be able to get him back. I feel it is now time for us to [speak out] since our skins have been pulled off our faces since day one.” Petina says Abigail’s daughters, aged three and eight, are currently in the care of her parents. She says upon learning that Jeremiah was raped, they immediately had the girls medically examined. “When I got home I had to tell my mother about the rape charge. It broke my mother. “I immediately went to Red Cross Hospital to have the girls checked out. We had to stay the night. Physically nothing was wrong with the girls; however, there’s a lot they have dealt with. “The environment they are in now is healthy, it’s stable and they are happy. “One can say they are now free to be kids again. The girls have been living with my parents since 12 June. These girls have nothing; I even had to get them clinic cards. “Those people don’t even know when the kids’ birthdays are, but Ruiters claims he was there for them; he is ridiculous,” Petina says. However, Pastor Ruiters, says the Timm family has forbidden him from seeing his granddaughters. “I called the grandparents and asked for their address in Mitchells Plain so I can visit. They just told me the girls don’t need anything. “They are trying to make as if Abigail was an abusive mother, but she was not. She took care of her children and provided for them and I helped her,” Ruiters says. Petina says her family was upset when they read in the Daily Voice that Ruiters was asking for donations for Jeremiah’s funeral. “He had no right to do what he did. After everything was sorted we saw the headline to say we have trouble burying Jeremiah. “I personally called the funeral service guy up and asked him what was going on, and he laughed and said everything was sorted. “We had everything covered as my father is a retired priest and our church has funeral policies. Even if they didn’t have a policy for him, he would have gone on my dad’s policy, which covers everything. “The bishop gave Mr Ruiters a chance to speak at the graveside. He said nothing about Jeremiah, it was like his moment of fame, asking for money from (President Jacob) Zuma, the ANC and DA, nothing to put Jeremiah’s soul to rest and say goodbye,” Petina fumes. But Pastor Ruiters says the donations he received were used for Jeremiah’s burial. “I received R2 000 from an individual from Johannesburg and R600 from nursing staff; this all went towards Jeremiah’s funeral." Abigail and Peters are back in court on 16 August for a bail application. Daily Voice