Durban - The Colour of Magic came to life on Saturday  at the Vodacom Durban July 2017, as designers and guests portrayed their own interpretation of the theme.
 
Fashion on the Action Stage was one of the highlights of the event as designers, young and old, showcased their designs in between the first five races.
 
The designs were out of this world - Classic Racewear, Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator, Huawei Most Striking Couple - left the crowd with dropped jaws.
 
Katekani Moreku, a young student from DUT, walked away with the Young Designer Award for a colourful piece worn by model, Luvuyo Shoba. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Designer Tilone Viljoen won the Fashion Challenge by dressing his model, Julia Rose, in what he called “a magician's waistcoat”. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Celebrities came out in their numbers, wearing gorgeous designer outfits, which screamed ‘The Colour of Magic’. Kelly Khumalo, Zandile Khumalo, Minnie Dlamini, Talitha Ndima, Khaya Dladla, Ayanda Thabethe and many more, looked stunning. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Although there were a number of races on the card, the R4 250 000 main race was the one punters were looking forward to the most. However, even though many thought that the favourite, Edict of Nantes, would win the July, surprisingly, Marinaresco, [ the ‘best of the rest when close 2nd last year’], slipped into the lead as the finish line approached .
 
It was despair for those who did not bet on Marinaresco but jubilation for jockey, Bernard Fayd’herbe and the owners.
 
Al Sahem finished in second place and Edict of Nantes came in third.
 
The celebrations were completed by a beautiful display of fireworks, which again, did not fail to deliver on the ‘The Colour of Magic’.
Independent Media