Lions are in another league
Yes, it was just the Sunwolves, but no one can argue that Johan Ackermann’s men aren’t the best - and most exciting - thing to happen to South African rugby in the last two years. They were sensational in scoring 14 tries against the men from Japan, giving them a total of 78 tries for the season, with a game to go. The Hurricanes lead the way with 85 tries. Saturday’s win was the Lions’ 13th in a row at Ellis Park, begging the question, who will beat them at home? Welcome back Bulls Who would have thought they’d go to Durban and beat the Sharks? The Bulls finally produced a performance to be proud of in winning at the coast, but one’s got to ask, what happened over June? Did the month off give the coaching staff and players time to reflect on what was going wrong, or is it that with nothing left to play for the players were able to play with freedom? Or, is it that there is hope again that John Mitchell is on his way to Pretoria? Hat-trick heroes There were some wonderful individual performances on the first weekend back after the international break, like Faf de Klerk’s cameo at flyhalf for the Lions, like Jan Serfontein’s strong midfield showing for the Bulls, like young Damian Willemse’s debut at 10 for the Stormers, but who can argue with the men who grabbed hat-tricks at the weekend: Cheslin Kolbe for the Stormers, Warrick Gelant for the Bulls and Ruan Combrinck for the Lions. Give the Kings a crown The men from the Eastern Cape are likely to get the Super Rugby chop, but heck, they’re making it hard for the SA Rugby bosses to cull them. Deon Davids’ side were hugely impressive before the June break, picking up some key wins and several players producing quality performances and they continued that trend in Buenos Aires at the weekend with a good win against the Jaguares. Well done to Davids and his players for showing tremendous fighting spirit. What’s up with the Jaguares? Plenty was expected of what is largely the Argentina Test side, but the Jaguares have been massively disappointing in their second year in the competition. They have failed to kick on from a promising start, and losing to the Kings is proof of just how far they have fallen. The players simply don’t look to be interested in playing and one can only wonder what they will be like when they pull on the Pumas jersey in a few weeks’ time. @jacq_west Cape Argus  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 