Acclaimed as one of South Africa’s most reputable events on the Western Cape’s social- and polo calendar, the prestigious Cintron Pink Polo returns for its 8th consecutive celebration that brings special emphasis to Breast Cancer Awareness on Saturday 4 November 2017. Unmatched by any other, this highly commended Polo with a Purpose pursuit will be hosted on South Africa’s leading wine- and polo domain; the immaculate Val de Vie Estate. “Cintron World is proud to announce our sustained partnership as Headline Sponsor for the next five years of this illustrious event. We look forward to welcoming survivors and guests from all walks of life to celebrate miracles and join us by continuing to create awareness and empower women and men who are bravely facing the challenges of treatment on a daily basis. Cintron Pink Polo enthusiasts can look forward to another world class experience this year, that goes hand-in hand with exquisite fashion, luxurious décor, exciting entertainment and of course the 14-high goal Polo with a Purpose to support this dignitary cause,” said Chelsea Brehm, Director of Marketing, from Cintron World. The event celebrates survivors of breast cancer and their inspirational stories of hope, healing and triumph.  Funds raised on the day are donated to create awareness of symptoms for early detection as well as assisting women affected by the disease, throughout South Africa. The 2017 event supports the St. Stephen Oncology Centre & Sub-Acute Hospital located in Paarl, where vital and convenient cancer care is provided to patients in the Valley. PinkDrive, powering South Africa’s first mobile mammography and educational unit through South Africa, will also receive assistance for the vital services they render. Blossom Box Boutique, an initiative birthed during 2016 between Cintron Pink Polo and Fynbos Valley Gift Boxes, will have beautiful handcrafted wooden boxes on offer for guests who may willingly participate by indicating how they will use the box to support women who are bravely facing the challenging aspects of chemotherapy. The inaugural world class event will showcase a fusion of glamour, bespoke fashion and enthralling polo in authentic luxurious African style. Guests will be entertained with a high-goal polo match between team sponsors Cintron and Vodacom, respectively captained by Springbok players Tom de Bruin and Leroux Hendriks in a bid to win the coveted Cintron Pink Polo trophy. Families can enjoy the Pink Food Truck Fair area with a selection of artisanal drinks, gourmet food and sweet delicacies on blankets and chairs in the summer sun. Polo Pavilion tickets offer front row seats to the spectacular fashion show, pop-up store delights and unique food and drink services in the spacious lounge area, while keeping an eye on the excitement taking place on the luscious polo greens. VIP’s can look forward to a specialised butler service in an opulent setting with delectable canapés and premium cocktails curated by Campari and Cintron, rubbing shoulders and shaking hands with A-list celebrities, while appreciating the breath-taking views of the majestic surroundings.  Private, VIP lounges are available for groups of 20 guests or more that allows for a day out in the picturesque winelands with friends or colleagues, celebrating in the Valley of Life. Vibrant hues of fresh pink, red, navy and silver with touches of textured fabrics and patterns are the inspiration for the dress code and décor. Renowned designer, Casper Bosman, will be conducting a sensational fashion show and dressing the female duo Master of Ceremonies -  Mishka Patel and Sechaba G -  in his stylish creations on this powerful platform. READ:We are crushing hard on Nomoozlie Vodacom is the official Network Partner for this prestigious event. BMW Paarlberg is the vehicle partner of choice and Jaeger-LeCoultre will be keeping time at the riveting polo match. Veuve Clicquot Rosé will provide premium champagne to sip on while guests relax in the pop-up areas and get pampered by Sisley and Tosca, respectively the beauty and hair partners for the day. Pink sparkle will be added by Sterns and American Swiss with their new Precious Pink Collection of jewellery, celebrating the beauty of pink Morganite gemstones.  Sport 24hrs and Taxi’s will ensure that guests arrive on time and get home safely after a day of memorable moments. Since inception in 2010, the event has become a powerful conduit through which attendees are introduced to the Sport of Kings in an exclusive, luxurious setting whilst lending a voice to the fight against breast cancer. Tickets are limited and available from Computicket, from R100 per person