DURBAN – A young shout-out to Mzansi women’s cricket for their effort! Twas beautiful, sistaz! Hola to the other Proteas, kodwa, it’s only one apiece, gents. Let’s push on now and save face. So, did the British and Irish Lions unwittingly help our local Lions? Surely Ackermann’s manne can’t make a hickory out of this Super Rugby title? They are last up, so let’s start at the bottom, like Down Under kinda bottom. “Ozzy Ozzy  Ozzy”… Oy, we haven’t heard that in a while, hey! The bleating Aussies have lost 25 out of 25 games against Kiwi sides in this year’s Super Rugby. Eish! This morning, the Brumbies are up against the mighty Canes. My beloved Canes seem to be peaking at the right time, but the Brumbies (default qualification) at home won’t roll over. This is knockout, baba. Look at the Aussie boys to fight hard for pride, but the scoreboard may prejudice against them. Back the Canes to come with the sense and sauce-ability in the second stanza, and take the second half as highest scoring at 1/1. Look into spread, but ek is bang as it’s a playoff, and bonus points mean much ado about niks nie... Then it’s the banger of the weekend tomorrow, over some lekker eggs. The Crusaders have lost just one in 14 this season, but can the almighty Highlanders come alive in Christchurch and give us the victory  – or upset in some people’s view (not Mshengu’s)  – to avenge their loss from earlier in the season? I smell an upset here, even though the books have them at 5/10 for the Saders and 18/10 for the visiting Landers. I concede that most would say home team is best this season, so vele fanele (yes of course), but this Clairvoyant ain’t into most! So go +7 at 9/10 or just shoot the breeze and go for an away win for the jolly Highlanders… “boom”! Can the Ous down in Kaapstad come out on top against the slick-stepping, momentum-gaining Waikato Chiefs at 6/10 on Saturday? I somehow think Stormers at a cheeky 14/10 have a look in, but may come up short. Damian ‘Mac’ is a beast and the Chiefs have a score to settle from the round-robins. Kiwi sides have been supreme, so I say Chiefs to sneak it, but the back and forth may see them fall short of the whole Super hog. Then it’s a three-peat with the Lions at 1/10 hosting the Sharks at 11/2 (wow, what a price – on principal, one must have a dip on the side). I don’t see the Sharks giving this one up too easily, even though they were sushi’d in their own tank last week. It’s a playoff derby, and the Sharks want to prove their worth. Go Sharks +12 if you feel brazen, but don’t call me on Monday! Then again, IF they win, drinks on you! Look at the fabled Craven Week for direction on this one, say the ancestors. Majors in any sports are a Toughee (they take you back to school), but try calling golf… then mix in it being “The Open”, and then spice it further with Birkdale madness and it’s on, my larney! Look wide, and be wary of the draw. We are a day late, but I call Ricky Fowler or Brooks Koepka from State side, a possible Asian outsider, perhaps, or one of the homeboys in the charging Poulter, the charming Tommy (Gun) Fleetwood, or the chilling Paul Lawrie. Wow, talk about shooting darts in the dark! Bones, over like trout! The Mercury