It was disbanded by the provincial executive committee (PEC) led by secretary-general Faiez Jacobs last month. That move came shortly before the party’s national policy conference in Johannesburg, which sparked fresh divisions between the regions and the provincial leadership. The PEC insisted its decision to dissolve the Cape metro region was due to its dismal showing in the 2016 local government elections. Five of the province’s six regions, in turn, called for the PEC to be disbanded for causing divisions. A task team headed by ANC MP Leonard Ramatlakane was appointed to oversee the region while the national working committee (NWC) attempted to resolve the issue. After two visits by the NWC delegation, led by President Jacob Zuma, secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said a resolution had been found. Spokesperson Khusela Sangoni said the national executive committee (NEC) had been briefed but the announcement would be made by Mantashe today following the party’s two-day lekgotla in Gauteng. Sources within the party said after talks with the NEC, it was agreed the disbanded leadership would be reinstated. “There was a bit of resistance from other members but in the end a decision was taken to reinstate the Dullah Omar region,” said a source who wished to remain anonymous. “This is not sitting well with the PEC but they have no choice but to accept the NEC’s decisions. They themselves have been allocated caretakers to assist them and that means that they now won’t be able to make haphazard decisions without consulting those NEC members first.” Chairperson of the Dullah Omar region, Xolani Sotashe, told the Weekend Argus he had been made aware of the talks around the NEC’s decision but stated they would wait for official word from Mantashe. At the heart of the struggles plaguing the ANC in the province are divisions over which candidate to back in the upcoming elective conference in December. A large number in the PEC is said to be supporting Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa while the Dullah Omar region supports former AU chief, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Weekend Argus