It’s a popular fear that after a few years of being Mr and Mrs, the marital bed typically becomes a place where financial woes are discussed and the desire for a night’s sleep replaces sex. A recent study has revealed how much time a clever woman puts into keeping her husband satisfied so there’s less chance he’ll stray. The study, conducted by VictoriaMilan – a dating site for married and attached people looking to cheat – asked 12 670 of its active male members from 21 countries how long their wives and long-term partners spend pleasing and teasing them in the bedroom – and how creative she is with her love games. Playing with and eating fruit, alternating ice and warm sensations on skin, experimenting with playful sex toys, licking melted chocolate and whipped cream from each other’s bodies and streaming sexual acts for the pleasure of unknown strangers are just some of the adventurous and amorous acts these wives and long-term partners dabble in. A woman with relationship longevity in mind keeps things fresh by ensuring the marital bed remains a place of pleasure, and she uses it as such for hours in the evenings, rather than allowing it to become a meeting place with an agenda that includes who is paying the bills and what time the kids need to be picked up from school. Sexually smart women know that the longer they occupy their husbands, the more she will exhaust him and reduce the desire he might have to go and spend his sexual energy with another woman. South African men are giving no reason to stray or even look at other women considering their wives give them 102 minutes of adult attention each time they head for the mattress. Founder and CEO of Victoria Milan, Sigurd Vedal, said clever women will exhaust their husband with foreplay and keep their knowledge of adventurous sexual trends up to date. “There’s an old adage from a mother to her daughter: in order to avoid your husband being interested in other ladies you should spend all your husband’s money and ensure he is sexually exhausted and doesn’t even have the energy to look at another woman. “The bedroom must remain sacred in order for a relationship to remain passionate, romantic and erotic. Conversations regarding instalment of car payments, your children’s school lives or the general humdrum should never take place in the bedroom,” Mr Vedal said. 