There is nothing ordinary about Sun City, The Palace of the Lost City especially. From the cream concrete rough textured walls supported by thick pillars, to the water features decorated with cheetahs pouncing on running springboks...this is a city one can get lost in. This weekend, a group of fashion designers, the business elite, socialites and entertainers are gathered here for the weekend. The occasion is the annual Royal Escape Experience (#RoyalEscape2017), an exclusive retreat by event organizers espAfrika. Guests are spending the weekend indulging in fine dining, participating in a golf tournament, enjoying  top notch entertainment, fashion shows, shopping  and getting pampered.  Your ticket price includes everything from your food to drinks, a purple bracelet identifies you as a special guest. Festivities began on Friday afternoon with a dinner under the stars at the The Royal Mokete. Seated around a fiery bon fire, a buffet offering braai meat, salads and starchy foods was served. The drinks flowed as we listened to soothing sounds by multi-instrumentalist Pops Mohamed and Afrobeat and Jazz musician Femi Koya. Traditional Xhosa dancers had us stomping our feet.  The MC of the weekend is media personality Unathi Mswngana. Wear South African (WearSA), a collective movement that promotes local designers and locally made apparel, kicked- off the fashion side of things with dancers wearing muted hues of khaki, green and whit. The highlight of the evening was a showcase by premium street wear brand Magents. Celebrating 90s music and the iconic kwaaito singer Lebo Mathosa. Dancers painted with words "Woke" "Love", delivered a massage of unity and spreading love. The brand launched in the late 90s started a different form movement of protest, post apartheid.  Their slogan t-shirts and separates of jackets and jeans celebrate street culture,  Africanism and the township lifestyle. Popular with fashion lovers and worn by artists, musicians and the politically conscious, it's one of a few brands that have stood the test of time is the saturated market.  To book your royal experience visit: www.escapemusicexperience.com 