Dearborn, Michigan - We’ve already shown you what Ford’s updated 2018 Mustang looks like, and told you all about its advanced gizmotronics in our world reveal story, back in January. But what’s more important in a Pony Car, especially one intended for world distribution, are the ponies under the bonnet. Now Ford has released details of the 2018 Mustang powertrains - and, on paper at least, they are really impressive. Ford is quoting a 0-60mph (96km/h) blast-off time for the flagship GT variant of less than four seconds in Drag Strip mode, making it the most powerful and fastest accelerating Mustang GT yet; it’s also quicker to 60mph than a Porsche 911 Carrera, which takes 4.4s according to claims. The GT’s five-litre V8 has been revised to combine high-pressure direct fuel-injection and low-pressure intake port injection, to give you the best of both worlds: improved torque and response at low revs as well as more top-end power. The result, according to chief engineer Carl Widmann, is an 18kW improvement in peak power, from 325 to 343kW, and a 5.7 percent increase in torque, from 540 to 570Nm. New 10-speed transmission The previous model's six-speed ‘box has been replaced by a new 10 speed paddle-shift transmission - designed and built in-house - with direct-acting hydraulic controls and real-time adaptive shift scheduling. It has specific mappings for each of the five selectable drive modes - Normal, Sport, Track, Drag Strip and Snow/Wet - including skip-shift and direct downshifting. And lastly, Widmann gives credit to the specially designed Michelin Pilot Sport 4 S tyres that come with the new Performance Pack, for improving traction off the line (and everywhere else). EcoBoost also boosted The 2.3-litre turbopetrol four has also been retuned; power is unchanged at 233kW, torque is up 40Nm to 470Nm. In Drag Strip mode, with Performance Package, 0-100 time is quoted at ‘under five seconds’. Ford SA has yet to confirm when the facelifted and beef-injected Mustangs will be released in South Africa - as soon as we hear, so will you.   IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 