The hotel’s lobby gives you an impression of an elegant and stylish space that can be perfect for your business or leisure needs.
Plush carpets, dark coloured furniture and staff that dressed in sharp black suits visually reinforce the idea of sophistication. 
With the hotel being located in the concrete jungle, the views are of Sandton and surrounds. Sadly, the view from the room I was staying in overlooked the parking lot, which was slightly disappointing.
A  plus however, is that it’s centrally located, with it being 10 minutes away from the Sandton CBD, the Gautrain Station and about 30 minutes from Johannesburg central.
The hotel’s 132 en-suite rooms feature a range of amenities, including iPod docks, DVD players, mini bars, and in-room tea and coffee facilities. Guests can also make use of the convenient 18-hour room service, porter service, and wake-up call facility.                                                                                                 
There is also a fully functional gym on the property for those gym fanatics boasting a view to inspire you as you pump that iron.  
The hotel rooms are all access controlled so guests can have peace of mind when it comes to security concerns.
When I arrived at the hotel on Friday evening, I was pleasantly surprised by the serene mood in the foyer, with soft music playing in the background.  I felt like I had left the hustle and bustle of the city. 
It occurred to me then, that for the same reason, this makes the hotel ideal for a couples weekend hideout at short notice. The interior of a room at the Southern Sun Hyde Park. Photo: Supplied The lifestyle section of the hotel, the restaurant and bar, are on the mezzanine level, while the rooms are located higher up. 
My room was comfortable. After the staff assisted me in sorting out the heating I was ready for dinner.
 Luce, is a fusion of  elegant Italian/Japanese cuisine with an impressive wine collection. I found the ambiance opulent and again reflected on how perfect it is for date night.
I ordered a seafood risotto for dinner, while my partner had a lamb shank. 
Because of it’s location, the hotel’s rooftop restaurant and bar area has become popular with young professionals and has become the go-to haunt for sundowners, especially on a Friday night.
I loved the trendy vibe of the bar. The Luce Restaurant in the hotel. Photo: Supplied Even though the area that the hotel is located in can be intimidating for someone who does not roll in those circles, a stay at the hotel will make you forget that you’re in the heart of the richest - and busiest part of  Africa. Call 011 341 8080 or email: sshydepark.reservations@tsogosun.com