CAPE TOWN - Yes, the Stormers’ Super Rugby run was ended by the Chiefs at Newlands yet again, but besides their quarter-final defeat to the Kiwis, there has been a lot of good, and some bad, that the Stormers have produced this season. Let’s look at the highs and lows of 2017 for Robbie Fleck’s team. The Sweet The growth of Siya Siya Kolisi has been really something since he was named as the captain of the Stormers earlier this season. He has been a top-performer in almost every single one of the Stormers’ games, and I don’t think anybody needs any reminding of how great he was for the Springboks during the series against the French. Leadership has certainly done him well, and judging by his elevation in just one season, there’s no telling what captain Siya will treat us to in the years to come. Attacking progress Probably the biggest positive the Stormers can take from this year is the progress they’ve made on attack. At the start of the season, coach Robbie Fleck said that a lot of focus was placed on skill development, and strength and conditioning as they geared up to play more expansively, and it has certainly showed. Their passes and offloads stuck better, they played with more width, and at times we saw some nice variety on attack. The best examples of their progress in this regard were their wins against the Bulls and Chiefs at Newlands. It wasn’t all good throughout the season, but there have definitely been signs of improvement, so it will be good to see their improvement next year.   Exciting youngsters Exciting youngsters: Blooding young new talent is something that has been mentioned quite a few times by Fleck this year, and what we’ve seen from some of those youngsters has certainly been sweet. When it comes to sweet on-field displays, Damian Willemse has certainly been right up there. The 19-year-old flyhalf stepped in the midst of an injury crisis at No 10 with both Jean-Luc du Plessis and Robert du Preez on the injury list, and he has thrilled with his attacking know-how, while he’s also impressed with his ability to control a game. And then there is outside centre EW Viljoen, who has established himself as a fine midfield option. Another promising newbie has been hard-working loose forward and World Rugby Under-20 Player of the Tournament Juarno Augustus, and although Augustus, who showed off his ball-carrying skills during the junior competition in Georgia, didn’t enjoy as much Super Rugby exposure as Viljoen or even Willemse, he surely is one to watch for next season. Deeper depths The Stormers have gained good depth in a number of positions this season, and although they haven’t always been able to make full use of all their options due to injury, point is, their depth has improved. For example, look at their loose forward stocks - where Fleck has guys like Kolisi, Nizaam Carr, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Kobus van Dyk and Rynhardt Elstadt, while other options include Augustus, Johan du Toit and Stephan de Wit. And it doesn’t end there. The same can be said about the flyhalf position with Willemse as the new addition. The Sour Never-ending injuries The Stormers have suffered a ridiculous number of injuries this season and, needless to say, it’s put them in a few unpleasant situations at times. Midfield has been a particular problem area this season, and the Stormers have been hit by multiple injuries at the same time in the two positions. Remember when they were so low on midfield stocks that they had to get in former Highlanders centre Shaun Treeby? Well, the situation didn’t exactly improve with time. Damian de Allende, Dan du Plessis, Juan de Jongh, Dan Kriel, Huw Jones and Treeby have all had to deal with the injury pest. In fact, Viljoen is the only centre who hasn’t been struck by injury this year. But it wasn’t just in midfield that things got a bit tough for the Stormers - flyhalf, prop, scrumhalf, wing, you name it, there have been injuries. Lineouts The lineouts have been an area of concern at times this year, and we’ve seen just too many skew and overthrown balls. The Stormers will have to fix whatever’s lacking in the area that has always been a traditional strength. After all, it can only help them to grow their attacking game even more if you think of all the variations they can use at and from the set-piece. Horror tour That tour to New Zealand was not pretty, not pretty at all. The Stormers suffered (and the word “suffer” is very appropriate) a 57-24 thrashing to the Crusaders, and an even more one-sided 57-14 encounter to the Highlanders. An improved performance saw them lose their game against the Hurricanes 41-22 (the scoreboard, however, did flatter the Stormers a bit too much as they only scored one try). They returned home with not a single log point and conceded 24 tries away.   The Stormers have impressed with outstanding performances this season, but at times they have just not been good enough. They opened their Super Rugby season with a complete performance against the Bulls, and they continued to impress in a number of games, including their win over the Chiefs earlier this year. Right after that superb performance by Fleck’s men, however, they went and lost to the Lions in a way they just shouldn’t have. They also struggled against the Sunwolves on both occasions, while they weren’t at their best either against the Cheetahs and Bulls towards the end of the season. But that can probably be put down to them trying to change their game, and it can perhaps be labelled "growing pains". They’re going to have to work on keeping things consistent if they want to have a real chance next time around. Cape Argus   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 