As with the latest Triton bakkie, South Africans have also endured a long wait for the SUV version, the new Pajero Sport, but the good news is that Mitsubishi’s latest Fortuner rival is almost here. Mitsubishi SA has announced that the Pajero Sport will go on sale in South Africa this September, and although the carmaker is remaining tight-lipped about the pricing, it has promised that the newcomer will be “competitively priced within its segment”. As you’ll see in the gallery above, the new SUV takes a bold approach to styling, to the point where it could prove downright controversial, particularly at the back. Yet perhaps this is the breath of fresh air that buyers in this Fortuner-dominated segment really need. It’s certainly looks to be a sophisticated offering. It is powered by the same new-generation 2.4-litre turbodiesel engine that powers the Triton, rated at 133kW and 430Nm. While South Africans will be offered a choice between rear-wheel drive and four-wheel drive, all our models will be equipped with Mitsubishi’s new eight-speed automatic transmission. Super-Select II-4 4WD versions also have low-range gearing, as you’d expect in this neck of the SUV woods. The new Pajero Sport rides on double wishbone independent front suspension, with a three-link coil-sprung set-up doing service at the back. Depending on how it’s specced, the SUV weighs around 2100kg and has a braked towing capacity of 3100kg. Mitsubishi SA says the vehicle will come with various new luxury features, but has not yet revealed what any of these are, except to say that it will only be offered in high-specification guise. However, it’s almost certain that it’ll offer the 17.8cm touchscreen infotainment system offered in overseas markets. Abroad, the SUV is also offered with safety features such as Trailer Stability Assist, Forward Collision Mitigation (with auto-braking) and Blind Spot Warning, while also offering the convenience of Adaptive Cruise Control and Mitsubishi’s Multi Around Monitor. More information on the local model will be released around launch time in September. IOL Motoring  Like us on 

Facebook   Follow us on 

Twitter  