There's always some scepticism attached to psychic mediums. Be that as it may, Henry Tyler is fast becoming the go-to medium for Hollywood A-listers. He’s helped many of them get closure and find direction, whether in their careers or personal life, by connecting them with loved ones who have passed on. 
And he’s all of 21 years old – completely adorable and sweet. Tyler also has a patience and warmth that belies his age. In a recent chat, he shed light on the incredible journey he’s had with his show, Hollywood Medium with Henry Tyler. 
“I knew when we were filming season one that we would get a pretty good response with the reading,”  he said.
Of course, the experiences and reactions took on a life of their own. “To have people stop me in the street after season one was very surreal. They shared how, in watching their favourite celebrities being read, they too felt a sense of healing. That was incredible. And I’m so excited for season two. We have a whole new line-up of celebrities.” There’s a new element added too. “You see the behind-the-scenes reactions of the family and friends. In episode one, I got to meet with Bobby Brown. And Whitney Houston and Kristina came through at the end of the reading. What was so profound for me was the fact that… he really got the answers he was looking for.” In case you were wondering, he never knows who he will be meeting or where he’s going. On the most standout reading from season one, he said: “Every one was so intense, but my reading with Monica Potter was one of the most emotional ones. I got to meet her in LA, then flew back to her small home town in Ohio. We went to her childhood home and met her family. Her dad was the strongest figure in the reading. I could feel his presence when I went back to where she grew up. It was a really heartfelt episode and it gave the family closure.”   So far, he has done about 125 readings for Tinseltown’s favourites. “I still regularly keep in touch with Khloé Kardashian and a few others. And there are a few follow-ups this season.”
Interestingly, he penned his memoir, Between Two Worlds, last year and has a second book in the pipeline. In the meantime, Tyler continues helping celebrities like Real Housewife Lisa Vanderpump, who connects to her dearly departed grandmother; Olympic figure skater Johnny Weir, who gets answers about his very public divorce; and DJ and reality star Pauly D, who connects with his tragically killed best friend. Plus, property developer Todd Chrisley breaks down in tears during a transformational reading.
  *Hollywood Medium with Henry airs on E! (DStv Channel 124) on Thursdays at 8pm. IOL