Cape Town - Ralph Stanfield is back in Cape Town and “doing better”, says his wife. In an exclusive interview with the Daily Voice, Nicole Stanfield said her husband, the suspected leader of the 28s gang, was flown back to the Mother City in a private jet in the early hours of Monday morning and is being treated at a private hospital. She said the name of the facility cannot be revealed due to safety concerns. Stanfield was shot in Johannesburg on Thursday. According to police, three of the 14 bullets fired at his posh Audi R8 hit Stanfield in the upper body; he was wearing a bulletproof vest at the time. Police have also refuted claims that Stanfield had a passenger in the car, and said he was alone in his car at the time of the drive-by attack. An injured Stanfield, 37, drove himself to nearby Morningside Medi-Clinic in Sandton, but lost control and smashed into three other vehicles. Nicole, 34, says she immediately boarded a private jet to fly to her husband’s side. The businesswoman said: “This has been a most difficult time for me and my family. Ralph is still critical and he has to stay in hospital, but his condition has improved and is now stabilised." “We brought him back to Cape Town on Monday morning and he is in a private facility receiving the care he still needs. I am in constant contact with the doctors about his progress and making sure he gets everything he needs.” Police on Tuesday confirmed no arrests have been made and have appealed to witnesses who saw the drive-by shooting to come forward. “We don’t know how many suspects there were or what car was used by them,” says police spokesperson, Captain Mavela Masondo, adding that police have not established a motive yet. “The investigation is ongoing. We request witnesses to come forward with any information.” Last November, Stanfield’s lawyer Noorudien Hassan was gunned down in a suspected hit while sitting in his car outside his Lansdowne home. Nicole says she is being supported by her family. “Times like these are never easy, but as a family we will always stand together, no matter what,” she adds. Daily Voice