Johannesburg - The transition from Audi’s previous generation A5 range to the second generation version is nearing completion with the introduction of the all-new Cabriolet model in South Africa. The A5 Cab follows the recent launches of the new Coupe and Sportback derivatives, with only some added engine options (including Porsche-powered RSs) still to come across the three body styles. The ragtop A5 is available now with three engine and drivetrain choices - a 140kW/320Nm 2-litre turbo with front-wheel drive, a 185kW/370Nm 2-litre turbo with quattro all-wheel drive, and a range-topping (for now) S5 quattro with a 260kW/500Nm 3-litre turbo V6. Gearbox options include six-speed manual or seven-speed S tronic automatics in 2-litre models, while the S5 is sold with an eight-speed tiptronic only. No performance figures have been quoted by Audi for the 2-litre variants, but the S5 comes with a 0-100km/h quote of 5.1 seconds and top speed is limited to the usual 250km/h. Audi South Africa confirms a 2-litre turbodiesel will arrive at a later stage, and though it’s yet to be announced, we suspect a 330kW/600Nm RS5 Cabriolet will arrive in due course. Like the previous version, the new Cabriolet gets a folding fabric top which opens in 15 seconds and closes in 18 while driving at speeds up to 50km/h. A new feature for this version is a one-touch function, allowing the roof to raise or lower without the need to hold the switch until the operation is complete. The A5 Cab uses the same five-link front and rear suspension systems as the Coupe and Sportback, and because it shares the same larger platform front shoulder room increases by 26mm and rear leg room grows by 18mm. Cargo space is decent for a drop-top at a maximum 380 litres, or 320 with the roof retracted. Audi also says this model’s chassis is 40 percent more torsionally rigid than the outgoing one, and is also the stiffest in its class. This class, by the way, includes BMW’s 4 Series and Merc’s C-Class convertibles. Most of the Cabriolet’s optional features are also shared with Coupe and Sportback siblings, and include a new Stop&Go Traffic Jam Assist (adaptive cruise control) with radar following capability, Attention Assist to monitor a driver’s drowsiness levels, and Pre Sense City which automatically brakes if it detects a collision with other vehicles or pedestrians. Of course Audi’s Virtual Cockpit digital instrument cluster is available here too, and when specced with MMI navigation plus a wifi hotspot for up to eight devices, Google Earth Navigation and Google Street View are unlocked. The A5 Cabriolet is also compatible with Apple Carplay and Android Auto smartphone pairing. Base models come with 17” alloys, Xenon headlights, rain-sensing wipers, cruise control, Dynamic suspension, Drive Select and a basic MMI Plus infotainment system among others, while Sport trim adds 18” wheels, Sport seats, a different front grille and bumper, and chrome tailpipes. The 185kW quattro gets further electric front seats and rear parking sensors. Standard fare on the S5 quattro includes 19” alloys, LED headlights, dynamic (swooshing) indicators, Nappa leather upholstery, S Sport seats, S Sport suspension and a flat-bottomed leather steering wheel among other things. Prices include Audi’s five-year/150 000km Freeway Plan. PRICES: <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> IOL Motoring  Like us on 

Facebook   Follow us on 

Twitter  