Pretoria - Ahmed Timol suffered a number of injuries that were not consistent with a fall from a height. This was the evidence of Dr Shakeera Holland, an expert on pathology, who took the stand on Wednesday during the second leg of the inquest into Timol's death. The inquest, brought by Timol’s family, aims overturning a June 1972 ruling by Magistrate JL de Villiers that Timol had committed suicide by jumping out of the 10th floor of the infamous John Vorster Square, currently known as Johannesburg Central police station. Holland told the high court in Pretoria on Wednesday that she examined the post mortem findings closely and she came to her own conclusions. She concurred with the earlier findings of cause of death - being caused by multiple injuries. She, however, said there were several injuries not in keeping with the fall from a height and must be explained by those who held him in custody. She listed a series of injuries - a pressed skull fracture with number of loose bones. This is not related to the other skull injuries and its out of keeping with fall from a height. The skull bone is very thick and it would need severe blunt force trauma to shutter it. She said this would not have been consistent with a fist blow. She agreed it would be consistent with a person lying on the ground and being kicked with a steeled boot. According to the witness, the non-fall skull fracture was so severe that it could have rendered Timol unconscious at the time. She said given this injury he would not have been able to jump up from behind the table in the notorious interrogation room at John Vorster Square and jump out of the window, as claimed by the police at the time. Timol also had a number of facial injuries, including a fractured jaw. These injuries could have been caused by blows or punches to the face, the witness said. He also had a number of bruises to his upper legs and groin area, which is consistent with repeated kicking. This would have hampered his walking or moving about, Holland said. In her opinion Timol was still alive at the time of impact - when he landed on the ground - but she said he would have passed away some seconds later. A second medical expert is expected to give evidence on Wednesday afternoon.  zelda.venter@inl.co.za  Pretoria News