Goodwood, England - Porsche pulled the covers off of its new 911 GT2 RS at the Goodwood Festival of Speed on Friday, which is quite fitting as this is the fastest and most powerful road-legal 911 that Porsche has ever produced. It’s shoved along by a modified version of the 3.8-litre twin-turbo flat-six that powers the Turbo S, in this case featuring larger turbochargers and an additional cooling system. Porsche quotes 515kW and 750Nm (a big leap from the Turbo S’ 427kW/700Nm), allowing the GT2 RS to screech from 0-100km/h in just 2.8 seconds and on to a top speed of 340km/h, according to Porsche. But the satisfaction of owning the baddest 911 of all time does come with a price premium. Porsche has already opened the South African order book and prices start at R4 411 000, which is a R1.2m premium over the Turbo S. The GT2 RS puts all its power to the back wheels through a seven-speed PDK dual-clutch automated transmission and the car rides 20-inch (front) and 21-inch (rear) wheels that wear Ultra High Performance tyres. To keep it all under control is a modified “racing” chassis that features rear-axle steering and drivers can dial in a specially calibrated PSM Sport mode for the ultimate in cornering prowess. Bringing the whole show to a halt is a set of Porsche Ceramic Composite Brakes, which are fitted as standard. Numerous weight-saving measures helped Porsche keep the kerb weight down to a mere 1470kg, and this includes numerous exterior and interior parts made from carbon-fibre reinforced plastic. Buyers can knock the weight down by a further 30kg by opting for the Weissach package, which endows the car with even more carbon and titanium parts. The GT2 RS cabin accommodates just two occupants, but they do get to enjoy full bucket seats with a carbon-weave finish and the interior colour scheme is flashy to say the least, with its combination of red Alcantara and black leathers. Buyers also get the full PCM infotainment system with navigation as well as a ‘Track Precision’ app that sends driving data and analysis to your smartphone. In order to make the GT2 RS experience even more special, Porsche has designed an exclusive titanium-bodied watch that’s exclusive to buyers of this vehicle. IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  