Johannesburg - The Save South Africa campaign on Thursday reacted to the apology issued by former Gupta PR firm Bell Pottinger, saying it was insufficient and calling for a full disclosure. This after the UK-based firm apologised for their involvement with Oakbay Capital as well the controversial Gupta family. Bell Pottinger came under fire when their working relationship with Oakbay was exposed, prompting them to cut ties with the company. The PR firm in a statement apologised to South Africans affected and said they had been misled. "There has been a social media campaign that highlights the issue of economic emancipation in a way that we, having seen it now, consider to be inappropriate and offensive. At various points throughout the tenure of the Oakbay account, senior management have been misled about what has been done. "For it to be done in South Africa, a country which has become an international beacon of hope for its progress towards racial reconciliation, is a matter of profound regret and in no way reflects the values of Bell Pottinger." Save SA, in response, said this apology was not enough and demanded full disclosure on the exact nature of "its dirty tricks campaigns while contracted to the Guptas’ Oakbay companies".
 "Bell Pottinger – acting in partnership with its client – sowed racial mistrust, hate and race-baiting, and divided society. Through its work, this British company has further polarized South African society and left deep scars in our social fabric.
 "It cannot be left to hide behind spin and say it was 'misled'. This attempted naivety is unacceptable from a company with a global history of disinformation and dirty tricks."
 The campaign demanded that the PR firm disclose who it worked with in South Africa, what its brief was, who provided that brief and who it was supposedly misled by. 
 Furthermore, Save SA wanted to know whether it was involved in the funneling of money to "front organisations" such as Black First Land First and the so-called Decolonisation Foundation; What its relationship was with the Guptas' media companies, whether it worked with any government entities and whether it has any other SA clients. "It is public pressure on Bell Pottinger that got us this far, and resulted in two major victories: the termination of its contract with Oakbay, and its public apology. But we must keep up the pressure, and demand full disclosure. Only then can we begin to unravel the mess that Bell Pottinger -- and the Guptas -- have caused, and address the damage they have left in their wake." IOL