Cape Town -  Alleged Cape Town gang boss Ralph Stanfield is fighting for his life in hospital after being shot in a drive-by attack in Johannesburg. Police say the alleged leader of the 28s leader was shot 14 times while driving alone his white Audi R8, with GP number plates at about 1pm on Thursday. Stanfield was wearing a bulletproof vest when he came under fire and drove himself to the Morningside Medi-Clinic in Sandton. Police say in his haste to get to hospital, he crashed into several cars before losing control of his sports car, valued at a whopping R3.3 million. Police sources in Joburg revealed to the Daily Voice that Stanfield was “doing badly and might not make it”. The Daily Voice spoke to his wife Nicole Stanfield on Thursday afternoon. Nicole, who sounded stressed out, said she was on her way to the Cape Town International Airport to catch a flight to Joburg. She would not confirm nor deny if her husband had been shot. Police spokesperson in Joburg, Captain Mavela Masondo, confirms Stanfield has been shot and that a case of attempted murder is being investigated. “We can confirm that a man from the Western Cape was shot in a drive-by shooting ... and drove himself to the nearest hospital," he said. “He crashed into vehicles with his Audi R8 and is in a critical condition in the hospital." Stanfield is the fourth alleged Cape Flats gang-boss to be targeted this year. On 3 July, Junaid Arendse, 29, a father of two and leader of the Junior Mafia’s in Eastridge, Mitchell’s Plain, and his friend Tariq Davids, 28, were gunned down near his home. On 29 June, alleged Nice Time Kids gang boss from Lentegeur, Marwaan Dinky Desai, 45, and his friend Shaheem Mohamed were parked at a Caltex garage in Pinelands when they were shot and killed. And alleged Sexy Boss 26s gang leader Jerome “Donkie” Booysen was shot in the neck in a drive-by shooting in Ravensmead on May 8. Stanfield, who owns a petrol station, claims to be a successful businessman. In April, he handed out wads of cash to people in Beacon Valley, where his mother lives, saying he wanted people to have a blessed Easter. Stanfield is the nephew of underworld kingpin Colin Stanfield, who died of cancer in 2004, and is the cousin of convicted 28s boss in Valhalla Park, Saliem John. Last October, Stanfield, his wife Nicole, his sister Francesca, and three cops – Lieutenant Billy April and police clerks Priscilla Mangayne and Mary-Gail Cartwright – were acquitted on a string of charges relating to fraud, corruption, possession of unlicensed firearms and contravention of the Firearms Act. In November, his lawyer Noorudien Hassan was gunned down in a suspected hit outside his Lansdowne home. Daily Voice