“Lies were told to Juju (EFF leader Julius Malema) by people whom Juju had no reason to disbelieve. Quite correctly, he believed them and acted accordingly. He discovered later he was lied to,” former president Thabo Mbeki said in a televised interview. The Economic Freedom Fighters leader agreed with him. These words got me thinking even harder about a question I have been pondering for a while now. Could I vote for the EFF in 2019? Malema has worked on his image over the past few years. When he speaks now he sounds more presidential and more appealing to clever-almost-born-free blacks like myself. Malema sorted out the mockery that was his academic achievement and graduated last year from Unisa. This proved to me that he is well aware of the importance of education and will do anything to ensure that educating the black child remains a priority in our country if he becomes president. His executive committee are a bunch of educated people who really want to usher in radical economic freedom in their time. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? He further got married. In black culture or communities, even in a democratic and modern world like we live in today, getting a wife is a sign you are more settled in life. It is largely interpreted as being responsible and being manly. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? For that, many black people have given him the thumbs up and continue to see a man on a mission in him. The conservative in me also agrees that getting married is a big deal to such a fairly young leader as Malema. Malema has shown incredible weight-loss. Without him screaming at us every time he is on the podium, looking at him sends a strong message that says: people can and should lead a healthy lifestyle. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? When you listen to Malema now when he speaks, the angry, insulting and perhaps even childish ways have disappeared. He articulates his points very well. He speaks calmly even when responding to something provocative. He commands respect now more than ever. It really gives me goosebumps when he starts talking. He is relevant, and well informed. Let us not forget his past. Many want to crucify Malema for his former life. I am calling it former because I strongly believe that he has changed. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? I believe Malema was a victim of circumstances which could have easily been influenced by those who knew better without him realising that he was getting himself into future trouble. So, for all that, I forgive him. Because his past is the least of my worries. Is that reason enough to vote for the EFF? On the policy matters of his party, it is a very tricky. There are seven cardinal, non-negotiable pillars of the EFF. I, like many other young black South Africans, am longing for land. We dream about land, but we want to work the land, not just own it. The African economy has to benefit Africans. We all want a corruption-free government. So, out of the seven pillars of the EFF, it is only the nationalisation of mines, banks, and other strategic sectors of the economy that I haven’t got my head around. The jury is still out on that one. So, for a young man who I believe was deceived by his leaders, by people who I suppose were his mentors, and later turned his life around to build such a massive and progressive political party, I salute Malema. But could I vote EFF in 2019? Honestly, the answer is in the secret ballot. * Chabalala is the founder of the Young Men Movement. ** E-mail: kabelo03chabalala@gmail.com; Twitter: @KabeloJay; Facebook: Kabelo Chabalala *** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Star