As anyone who’s ever spent a night in the same room as an elusive mosquito knows, a good night’s sleep makes all the difference to your day. On the flipside there few things to benefit body and soul like waking up refreshed in beautiful surroundings.  Sue Petrie, British Airways’ Commercial Manager for Southern Africa, says the airline’s new range of linen from The White Company for its Executive Club customers, will help its Executive Club customers get a good night’s sleep at 35 000 feet.  But once you land, she says, there are some enticing options for places further afield that offer beguiling accommodation. Here’s her pick of five to explore.  Good Hotel, London: formerly a floating Dutch detention-centre, now docked on the Thames in London, with huge windows presenting views of the river, the O2 Arena and the Victoria Docks. Inside is hip, upcycled décor that had London’s décor and design fraternity abuzz when it was launched: think no-nonsense hues of steel and wood, with understated Dutch design rather than Trump Tower-esque gold taps and gilded chairs. www.goodhotellondon.com  Kakslauttanen Hotel, Saariselkä, Finland: warm up in front of a fire in your log cabin and then retire to your bedroom in a glass igloo attached to the cabin. There, you can watch the Northern Lights from the warmth and comfort of your bed. The cabins are in a resort with five restaurants to choose from. If you feel like exploring chilly splendour of the snow-covered Lappish wilderness, you can choose your mode of transport: sleds pulled by reindeers or huskies, on horseback, or on snowmobiles or in snow-tanks.http://www.kakslauttanen.fi/en/  Tree Hotel, Harads, Sweden: hotel rooms in a forest, each with a theme: one is shaped like a UFO, another like a bird’s nest. One much-photographed suite is suspended in the trees and reached by a 12-metre-long bridge. As the Mirror Cube’s name suggests, its exterior walls are covered in mirrors so that it almost becomes invisible. Ideal for an incognito lie-in. http://treehotel.se/en/all-rooms/8-rum/23-the-mirrorcube  Revolving hotel rooms at the Marmara Antalya Hotel on Turkey’s Turquoise Coast, with ever-changing, 360-degree views of the mountains and the Mediterranean from your king-sized bed. Apart from the ocean from while area gets its name, the province of Antalya has ruins and relics dating back to the time of Alexander the Great, the Byzantine era, the Seljuk Turks and the Ottoman Empire.http://www.themarmarahotels.com/the-marmara-antalya-hotel/rooms/revolving-loft-room.4.aspx  Villa Cheminée in Nantes, France: a former art installation comprising a cottage and a small garden atop a 15-metre steel tower, on the banks of the Loire River, overlooking the estuary, with the ancient city of Nantes nearby. While the city has roots in antiquity and beautifully-preserved chateaux, it also has rich, multicultural arts scene. https://www.nantes-tourisme.com/en/contemporary-art/villa-cheminee-oeuvre-estuaire