Johannesburg - "I won't be satisfied with any other decision other than the removal of the teacher." This was the bold assertion made by Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi regarding the racism row embroiling St John's College in Joburg. On Friday, Lesufi told journalists that he felt "undermined, irritated and deeply disappointed" with the school's decision not to dismiss the geography teacher it had found to have made racist remarks to black learners. The teacher is said to have told the black learners that they were only passing due to their close proximity to white learners. School principal Paul Adey announced on Thursday that, although the teacher was found guilty of all three counts by an "independent investigation", including "racist utterances", they would not fire him. Rather, the school would give the teacher a "final written warning". This is what infuriated Lesufi, who emphasised that he told the school's officials that their decision meant that they "don't take racism seriously". "I told them that in no uncertain terms!" The visibly upset MEC added he was not "satisfied" with the "presentation of the one-page report" he was given. "I have given them a deadline of 1pm (Friday afternoon) to" deliver a better report. Lesufi stressed that he wanted to see the following changes: a better explanation of racism at the school, and that the teacher must be reported to the SA Council of Educators (SACE) for his conduct. Should the teacher be found guilty, the MEC added, "he should be removed as an educator". Lesufi hastened to point out that he was not outsourcing the reporting of the teacher to the SACE. Rather, he wanted the school to take responsibility for its staff member; failing which, Lesufi would take action himself. The teacher was also found by the independent probe to have brought St John's College into disrepute and contravening the codes of the SACE. Earlier, angry black parents put up placards outside demanding racial reforms and better treatment of their children.
@khayakoko88 The Star