Bastille Day means glorious summer in France. School’s out and everyone is celebrating the French equivalent of America’s 4th of July by taking the party outside with picnics, fetes and fireworks. For those of us who can’t be in France to celebrate, don’t despair, here are a few recipes, all with a distinct French feel, to satisfy the inner Francophile in all of us. All you have to do is to open a bottle of French bubbles! Our Source d'Inspiration is one of France’s leading food brands Tipiak and the recipes are quick and easy to make but ooze all the savoir faire you’d expect from the French. 
À votre santé! LAMB AND COUSCOUS ‘BREYANI’
Serves 4
Preparation time: 10 minutes
Cooking time: 40 minutes
Difficulty: easy Ingredients2tbsp Indian curry paste of your choice 500g lean lamb, cubed 400ml lamb stock 2x100g sachets couscous 200g baby spinach Method
Heat a large pan, fry the curry paste until fragrant, add the lamb and allow to brown. Pour in half the stock, bring to the boil, cover with a lid and simmer for 30 minutes, adding more stock as needed. Make the couscous according to pack instructions. Fluff in a bowl. Add any remaining stock to the lamb and allow to bubble. 
Remove from heat, add the spinach and top with the couscous (don’t stir). Place a tight lid on top and allow to steam undisturbed for 5 minutes. Serve immediately. GRILLED FISH AND GARLIC-TOMATO OIL SERVED ON COUSCOUS WITH TOMATOES AND PROVENCAL HERBS, Serves 4
Preparation time: 10 minutes
Cooking time: 20 minutes + infusing 
Difficulty: easy Ingredients
2x125g sachets couscous with Tomatoes and Provencal Herbs 4 firm sustainable fish fillets, skin-on 100ml olive oil 1 clove garlic, bashed 2 fresh ripe tomatoes, pips removed and flesh finely diced 2 spring onions, thinly sliced MethodPrepare couscous with Tomatoes and Provencal Herbs according to pack instructions. Season fish and drizzle with a little olive oil. Grill or fry till done, being sure to crisp the skin. Meanwhile, heat the olive oil with the bashed garlic clove in it but do not boil. Off the heat, allow to infuse and cool for 10 minutes. Just before serving, discard the garlic and add the fresh tomato and spring onion to the oil. Serve fish on the couscous with the garlic-tomato oil spooned over the top. 