SINGAPORE - Antonio Conte has revealed that if he could buy any striker in the world, he would go for Tottenham’s Harry Kane. Chelsea have recently spent a club record £70million on Alvaro Morata from Real Madrid and are not in the market for another centre forward. The champions will not bid for Kane this summer, but Conte admires the talent being nurtured by Mauricio Pochettino and not only his talisman and top scorer. Chelsea also tried to sign Kyle Walker before the England right back left for Manchester City in a deal worth up to £54m. "For me, Kane, now, is one of the best strikers in the world," said Conte. "If I had to buy one striker I would go to Kane. "He is a complete striker. He is strong physically with the ball, without the ball, he fights and he’s strong in the air and acrobatic on the right and the left. He’s a complete player. If you go to buy Kane now, it would be at least £100million. At least. "For me, if I see this price for a striker I know for sure he’s a big striker. Dele Alli is another top player, young." Real Madrid and City are competing to sign Monaco teenager Kylian Mbappe for £160m and Paris Saint-Germain are talking over a £196m move for Neymar. "Every player is expensive," said Conte. "You go to buy a right back, a left back or a central defender and he is expensive. If you want Kyle Walker, you know Walker is expensive. We tried to buy Walker. It is very difficult for the teams that need to improve their squads." Chelsea finished seven points clear of runners-up Tottenham last season and the London rivals meet on the second weekend of the Premier League season. Conte praised Tottenham’s progress but stressed it was easier for them to develop talent because of their lower expectations. "Tottenham is a very good club," said Conte. "Pochettino is a very good manager and last season they didn’t win but they built something important. "They lost Walker but to continue with the same players is good for the coach. He knows the club and the players, but they can work without a lot of pressure. "This is the reality. If (Spurs) don’t arrive in the Champions League, they can justify (it because) there are the two Manchester clubs, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool.’ Daily Mail   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 