The Mtunzini High Court has dealt heavy sentences to three people implicated in a farm attack two years ago. The three – Sabelo Zulu, 22, Nana Madikane, 44, and Thandiwe Cele, 54  – were sentenced by the court for the attack in Nyoni area near Mandeni in 2015 on Thursday. Zulu was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder, twelve years for attempted murder and fifteen years for robbery. Madikane was given six years for robbery and Cele received four years for robbery as well. Two other suspects remain at large. Police said in a statement that Madikane and Cele arranged to the robbery at the farm. “The fourth suspect, Sandile Mjadu, 30, was later shot and killed in the KwaMbonambi area by police when he allegedly shot at members who were looking for him for other crimes as well. He was found in possession of a rifle suspected to be the one that was taken during the farm attack.” On June 2, 2015 at 7pm, said police, the victims, Peter Johnson, 56, and his brother, were in their farm house when they were approached by three men who were armed. “They allegedly shot and killed Peter Johnson and his brother was wounded and later taken to hospital for treatment.” During the attack, Zulu was shot and wounded and was taken to hospital under police guard. “The other two suspects took two rifles and a pistol before they fled the scene. A case of murder, attempted murder and robbery was opened at Nyoni police station for further investigation.” The Ilembe Cluster Task Team led by Lt Colonel Colette Bruwer took over the docket and through intensive investigation, using their skills and experience, the two women were arrested and linked to the robbery. “It appeared that they organised the robbery by colluding with three men.” KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa welcomed the sentence. “We will not rest until all involved suspects are arrested and prosecuted. We cannot allow innocent people to be attacked and killed by these criminals. We will ensure that farming community as well as farm dwellers are always protected as we are conducting regular patrols in their areas.”