Durban - President Jacob Zuma on Tuesday outlined his strategy for two deputies, saying it would combat disunity within the ANC and end factionalism. Speaking at the Nelson Mandela memorial lecture at Empangeni, the president expressed support for a call that factions in the party contesting positions be allowed to have representation in the top leadership of the organisation. Zuma said the party’s constitution must be changed to enable the proposal. He said his proposed formula was better than leaving the ANC fighting “forever”. Zuma said in December the conference must take the resolution, so that the next election fight is not as vicious as the current one. “Some of the strong leaders who were defeated in Polokwane left the organisation to form something called Cope. It’s a matter we need to discuss, otherwise the organisation will keep getting smaller,” he said. Zuma said the objective was not to appease or manipulate the contestants, but how to unify the organisation. “I am pleading with the province to debate this matter. It’s critical, if we fail we will keep on reducing our numbers. It’s important for the life of the ANC.” Zuma said the slate where the winner took all, by its very nature created divisions, as the losers began plotting. He implored party members to emulate Madiba and work for unity. He also called on the youth to fight for radical economic transformation. “Madiba brought us together, this generation should cement that togetherness to make sure that they implement programmes that are about radical economic transformation to expand access to the economy by black people, education, and many other public programmes." “As young leaders of the ANC you must never fail in this mission,” he said. The president said the youth must lift the country and people out of the clutches of poverty and unemployment. “The youth must know that we were not born like this, us black people. Saying we can finish poverty without bringing back the land is just a dream.” Zuma encouraged the youth to study. “You must fill tertiary institutions, not just to get a job but to create jobs, so that SA can be free economically because now we are just politically free.” He said the vote was the first step towards economic emancipation. “We need to know how to use our political power to get economic freedom. These are interlinked.” Nelson Mandela had from a young age started to develop a vision for the nation - “that is why they built the ANCYL to impact the mother body”. The Mercury