Standard Bank Young Artist for Theatre 2016, Jade Bowers presented Black an adaptation of CA Davids’ Blacks of Cape Town by Penelope Youngleson (winner of the Standard Bank Gold Ovation Award for Sillage) at the National Arts Festival.  A: When you approached  CA Davids, how did that do down?  J: I first approached CA Davids for permission and she was quite interested in the idea, I then approached Penelope Youngleson to do the adaptation as we had been talking about collaborating on a project again for a long time. Penelope then read the book and produced a first draft which we read and gave notes on, we then got a second draft and put the work on the floor, working with Ameera and Daniel and saw what worked in performance. And the work went from there with little changes as we went along.  A: What’s the first hook that gets a new play started for you? Is it an image, a theme, a character? J: For different plays, it is always something different. For this play, it was the music and the time period. Cape Town jazz and timeline stretching from 1891 to 2008. The interesting family dynamics that I can completely relate to from my family. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Video: Jason Miller A: I suppose the most obvious question to ask is if the character played by Ameera Patel, is it autobiographical or based on anyone? J: If it is – I’m not sure if it was based on a person or a combination of many people – it would have come from the novel. I see many similarities with many micro-histories from Cape Town, I think we all have that family story of how we came to be where we are as a family unit. A: How did you find managing the two roles as Director and Designer? J: It is generally the norm for me, working on smaller productions with a small budget it becomes necessary to play different roles such as producer, designer, director as I was for this show. I think it sometimes works well, but sometimes it can limit the work in that there fewer minds working on the play that could add different dimensions.  A: Were there any times when for example, your roles conflicted with each other? J: Not conflicted, I think, but rather, with the short rehearsal period we had, some things could have had more thought and work put into it had it been 2 different people. Moving forward we will explore these design and directing elements to push it further.  A: What is your profession’s greatest challenge today? J: For me, it is sustainability. How do we (in this case I am talking about small production companies like Jade Bowers Design & Management) keep making work and making money off the work to be able to stay afloat? It is a constant hustle for collaboration, partnerships and marketing to try to keep it going. A: What are you currently working on? J: BLACK is going to 969 Festival at Wits Theatre (26 & 29 July) and PopArt (3-6 August) SCORCHED (premiered at National Arts Festival 2016) will be playing at the Playhouse in Durban 16 – 19 August I am then starting work on a new production for next year and hopefully bring BLACK back for some further runs.