These resorts take luxury to the next level. We list our top 4 picks.  Mulia Villas - Nusa Dua, Bali Address: Jl. Raya Nusa Dua Selatan, Kawasan Sawangan, Benoa, Badung, Kabupaten Badung, Bali 80361, Indonesia What’s special about it? The private villas takes five star to another level. Each villa boasts a hydrotherapy pool, a daybed, 24 hour butler experience and daily breakfast and afternoon tea. There are complimentary classes, beach activities and fitness facilities.  Anantara Peace Haven Tangalle Resort Address: Goyambokka Estate, Tangalle 82200, Sri Lanka What’s special about it? Recognised in Condé Nast Traveler US’s prestigious 2017 Host List as one of the best new hotels in the world as well as one of the hottest new openings in Sri Lanka, Anantara Peace Haven Tangalle Resort hides away on a rocky outcrop along a secluded stretch of Sri Lanka’s southernmost coastline. There are several restaurants on site with a high tea lounge. There are also cooking classes available.  They pride themselves on wellness with a spa, Ayurveda and reflexology spots at the resort. Fitness enthusiasts can enjoy the 25 meter swimming pool, gym and yoga classes.  Four Seasons Tented Camp Golden Triangle, Thailand Address: Chiang Saen Post Office, Chiang Rai 57150, Thailand  What’s special about it? Four Seasons Tented Camp Golden Triangle are part of an all-inclusive package that includes round-trip airport transfer, meals, house wines and spirits, elephant trekking and a spa treatment. It is so close to nature and an escape from the business of it all. The camp activities like elephant connection and spa amid bamboo jungle is bound to leave one feeling revitalised and recharged. Iniala Beach Resort Address: Khok Kloi, Takua Thung District, Phang-nga 82140, Thailand  What’s special about it? Iniala Beach Resort is situated golden sands of Natai beach, Thailand,  overlooking the Andaman Sea. The accommodation features include Iniala Beach House, three absolute beachfront villas and a penthouse and Iniala Shores, four deluxe family villas. Each villa has a dedicated team including 24 hour assistance from our fully staffed reception and concierge, a driver, butler, chef, spa therapist and a housekeeper.  