With the summer season approaching in the country of Antigua and Barbuda, the country that is known for its reef-lined beaches and resorts recently launched it’s summer campaign, aimed at promoting the country as a tourist destination. According to Breaking Travel News (BTN), the country is reporting an increase in visitors to the island after the campaign was launched on June 23. With the Caribbean country also having been thrust into the spotlight following two high profile visits, one by Prince Harry the other by footballer Lionel Messi with his family, both of which were widely reported in the media, have also played a role in increasing the country's appeal. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A video posted by Messi on his Facebook page documenting his time spent in Antigua. He was also joined by fellow footballer, Luis Suarez.  Video: Facebook. Speaking to BTN, Jean-Marc Flambert, vice president, sales and marketing, UK & Europe, at the Antigua & Barbuda Tourism Authority commented: “We are thrilled that our largest marketing campaign yet has had such tangible results for the destination and for the partner tour operators. “The idea behind the timing of the campaign was to proactively push summer and autumn sales to the destination and it is encouraging to see that there is an appetite for Caribbean travel in these traditionally quieter months. The island, being tropical, experiences warm temperatures throughout the year, with its summer season being traditionally quieter months for tourism. The aim of the campaign has been to drive traffic to Antigua during that period.  The website attached to the campaign brings together a list of accommodation, social events and things-to-know about the country while on holiday. BTN reports additionally that travel operators that are attached to the campaign have also seen an increase in inquiries and bookings for the island. Tour operator partners involved in the campaign have reported spikes in Antigua bookings with Kenwood Travel 33 per cent up and British Airways Holidays 85 per cent up for the last week of June following the campaign launch. Additionally, Kuoni has seen a sharp increase in Antigua honeymoon inquiries.