JOHANNESBURG - It promises to be a thrilling Super Rugby quarter-final clash when the Lions host the Sharks in Johannesburg today with several big-name stars in action. However, there are a few match-ups that really get the juices flowing and which could play a big role in determining which side comes out on top, writes Jacques van der Westhuyzen. Malcolm Marx v Chiliboy Ralepelle They’re both known to be powerful scrum operators, but who gets the better of the other in this department may depend on how the props go; there wasn’t much stability in this area last week in Durban. Where youngster Marx and relative veteran Ralepelle will be properly measured is at line-out time where their throwing will be crucial; quality lineout ball plays a massive part in the attacking game nowadays. Marx’s ability to play a linking role and his prowess on the ground make him a formidable opponent for Ralepelle. Kwagga Smith v Jean-Luc du Preez Is there a more dynamic, under-rated player in South African rugby than the Lions flank? Smith has been sensational since returning to the 15-man game from Sevens, unlike Seabelo Senatla who has struggled somewhat at the Stormers. Smith is excellent as a ball poacher, he’s quick and he’s got skills and he’s a man the Sharks will want to keep an eye on, particularly his direct opposite today, Du Preez. The Sharks man is a completely different kind of beast, a powerful loose-forward whose game is focused on carrying and defence. Elton Jantjies v Curwin Bosch What a tussle awaits ... it’s the Springbok incumbent against the man many believe should be wearing the green and gold 15 on his back. Jantjies has enjoyed a stunning season again, but he’s matured since last year and his kicking at goal has been outstanding. Bosch was man of the match in April when the teams met in the round robin phase in Joburg, almost winning the game for the Sharks thanks to his booming boot. He is a phenomenal talent and a man the Lions will want to keep in check. Ruan Combrinck v S’bu Nkosi The Lions winger has shown every bit of his class since returning from injury and he must be close to getting back into the Springbok squad again. Exceptional power, pace and an eye for the gap make him a dangerous wing and a man every team would like on their side. Nkosi is only a youngster, but he’s blessed with real pace and some wonderful skill - and a mind for the unexpected. He’s shown some wonderful touches out wide this season and is a man the Sharks will want to bring into the action as often as possible. What a match-up! @jacq_west  Saturday Star  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 