JOHANNESBURG – The Golden Lions and KZN Sharks bring down the curtain on the Coca-Cola Craven Week at St Stithians today when they meet in the festival’s unofficial final. Although the week’s concluding fixture has, with time, become known as the “final” and the team that win it are regarded as the champions, the reality is that the Craven Week is officially a festival, with no winner. That said, however, everyone knows that the honour of playing in the last game on Saturday goes to the two best sides on display in the preliminary games and, on that score, the hosts and the Sharks richly deserve their places there. The Sharks were impressive in beating the Blue Bulls on day two. Then they demolished SWD - who are never weak at this level - on Thursday. They have in their ranks a number of players who are clearly destined for higher honours, including their giant lock JJ van der Mescht, loose forwards Dylan Richardson and Phendukani Buthelezi, and backs Conan Le Fleur, Sanele Mohamba and Syanda Cele. The Lions beat Border comfortably on day one and then had the best of a 13-13 draw with Western Province in a titanic battle on Wednesday. They too have a number of players who we are going to hear from again. Fullback Kennedy Mkpeku has had the crowd buzzing, as has the pace of winger David Cary and the finishing skills of centre Yanga Hlalu. Props Keagan Glade, Nkosikona Masuku and Asenathi Ntlabakanye have probably been the best scrummagers on view, while No8 Travis Gordon has been an inspirational captain, and mighty with ball in hand. Free State, who won their two early games by big margins, are unlucky to have been allocated the curtain-raiser slot, against WP, while the Blue Bulls, well beaten in both lead-up games, suffer the ignominy of playing on the B field. The Blue Bulls and WP meet in the main game of the Academy Week running concurrently with the Craven Week. The two SA Schools teams that will be playing international matches next month will only be announced early next week. Saturday’s Craven Week Fixtures Baytopp Field: 9am Limpopo Blue Bulls v Griquas, 10.30 EP v Leopards, 12.05pm SWD v Pumas, 1.45 WP v Free State, 3.30 Golden Lions v KZN Sharks. Jamieson Field: 8am E Province Country v Border Country, 9.25am Namibia v Zimbabwe, 10.50am Valke v Griquas Country, 12.15pm Boland v Griffons, 1.40pm Border v Blue Bulls. @theogarrun  Saturday Star  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 