The annual Sanlam Top Destination Awards, in its third year running, plans to expand this year with an additional award dedicated to the technology in the hospitality industry. The award has been designed with the collaboration of Sabre Hospitality Solutions, the leading provider for distribution, operations and marketing solutions to the hotel industry. Delivered primarily through a Software as a Service (SaaS) model, Sabre Hospitality Solutions is used by more than 36,000 properties around the world. Its integrated reservations systems, property management system, distribution and marketing services help hotels increase revenues, identify savings, and improve customer service. The purpose of this new award is to uplift the hospitality industry in South Africa by acknowledging top tech solutions improving the local hospitality industry and supporting key industry players becoming more and more performance driven.
 
As a global industry leader in the hospitality technology sector, Sabre Hospitality Solutions decided to collaborate with the Sanlam Top Destination Awards 2017, adding the Sabre Top Destination Technology awards category to reward the most technology advanced hotel among the nominees.
 
The Sanlam Top Destination Awards has been created as an honorary platform for the Hospitality Industry in Southern Africa to put their best foot forward and to be selected as the national “Top Destination” in their respective categories and star grading. The awards event is hosted by Discount Traveler South Africa and serves to recognise the hard-working establishments of the country in one of the world’s most demanding markets.
 
Discount Traveler South Africa is supported by IMS Africa, providing Central Booking Solutions and payment platforms for the entire Hospitality and Travel industry, as Sabre Global Business Partner for South African accommodation establishments, enabling the effective distribution of their available rooms to worldwide travel agencies, Online Travel Platforms (OTA), as well as via call centres and resellers worldwide.
 
The Sanlam Top Destination Awards will provide the opportunity to win the Sabre Top Destination Technology Award and receive an invitation to the Sabre Customer Forum for next spring 2018 for the establishments that will sign up with Sabre before the 14th of September 2017. The Sabre Hospitality Executive Team will be attending the award ceremony to hand over the award in person.
 
The Sanlam Top Destination Awards will be hosted at the stunning Kelvin Grove Club in Cape Town on the 14th of September where 40 winners from 9600 nominees will receive their share of R1 000 000’s in advertising as well as the sought after title of Top Destination in their respective categories and star grading. Each winner will also receive a Sanlam Top Destination Awards winner’s trophy and certificate.
 
Additional sponsors providing gifts, prizes and services at the Sanlam Top Destination Awards 2017 include Rialheim Ceramics, Romatex Hospitality Textiles, Inn-addition Hospitality Bulk Suppliers and Ayama Wines.
 
For more information on the awards, visit: Sanlam Top Destinations Awards