Cape Town - An allegedly drunk cop has been arrested after crashing into a stationary vehicle at a red robot. The Mitchells Plain police officer had just dropped off a truckload of prisoners at Pollsmoor Prison in Tokai when the accident happened. The cop’s colleagues were called to Tokai Road, at a set of robots near Kirstenhof Police Station on Tuesday afternoon where they found the constable, apparently in a drunken state, sitting in the police truck. Also in the truck was his colleague, a sergeant. Both of them are stationed at Mitchells Plain Magistrates’ Court. It is believed the driver of the stationary vehicle got out of his car and walked to the truck and noticed that the constable allegedly reeked of alcohol. The cop was apparently in such a drunken state, he could not move, according to sources. The source says: “They were on their way back from Pollsmoor at Tokai Road, driving a court truck, when the constable, who was the driver and the sergeant, the passenger, drove into a vehicle that was standing in front of the red robots. “The driver got out and saw that the police officer was smelling like strong alcohol. “The case was opened at Kirstenhof Police Station. A senior police officer was called to the scene.” The sergeant was found to be in a sober state and will not be facing any charges, police say. The alleged drunk cop, 33, was arrested at the scene. He will be facing a charge of drunken driving when he makes his first appearance at the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on 7 August. Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, confirms the man’s arrest and says he was briefly detained, before being released and warned to be in court next month. Cops are now awaiting laboratory results on blood samples taken at the scene, which will be presented to the court. “A 33-year-old SAPS member was arrested for drunken driving and he will appear in court on 7 Augus,” said Rwexana. It is unclear whether the officer is back on duty or whether he will face any internal disciplinary action. Daily Voice