The internationally award-winning South African actress, Terry Pheto, is leading the International Achievement Recognition Awards (IARA Awards) as the most nominated actor this year.
 
Pheto received three nominations for the upcoming 4th annual IARA Awards in the categories: Best Actress 2017 and Best International Actress 2017 for her role in A United Kingdom, and Best Actress – TV or Drama 2017 for her role in the BET Nelson Mandela series.
 “There are no words to express how I‘ve felt over the past few days. It’s always extremely humbling to be recognised for the work I do and more so on internationally recognised platforms. Who would ever have thought that a girl from the Vaal would one day be nominated in the same category as the likes of Oprah Winfrey and lead with the most nominations on internationally recognised award platforms like the IARA Awards,” shares Pheto. The IARA Awards recognises and celebrates the exceptional work of extraordinary positive role models who have excelled within their respective industries, and will take place in London on 2 September 2017.
   
2017 has been a year of international acknowledgement for Terry Pheto. Having started the year off with winning Best Supporting Actress at the National Film Awards UK for her role in A United Kingdom, and recently being invited to be a part of the internationally recognised luxury watch company, Longines’ family; Pheto’s recent award nominations are further testament to her brand power and international appeal. Pheto shared the exciting news on Instragram this morning, she wrote: "Don't work for recognition, but do work worthy of recognition." - H. Jackson Brown, Jr. Last night I received three nominations for the upcoming IARA Awards in the categories: Best Actress 2017 for my role as Naledi Khama in A United Kingdom, Best Actress – TV or Drama 2017 for my role as Winnie Mandela in the BET mini-series, Madiba AND Best International Actress 2017. Putting me in the lead as the actress with the most nominations for 2017. Thank you @iara_awards for the recognition! Im humbled." (sic) IOL