IN REPLY - NGO Reports On Safety Defended Cape town - With reference to the press statement released by Premier Zille’s spokesperson, we wish to state emphatically that we disagree with the allegations of inaccuracies regarding the Commission of Inquiry into the safety of children in the Western Cape. We take umbrage to the accusation that the reports by NGOs are not factual. These are the facts: The meeting started late resulting in the premier staying for 20 minutes. After she left, the discussion continued with her delegation. The opening sentiment of the premier was that commissions are expensive. She did not entertain further discussion with regard to the commission. It was simply set aside. She proceeded to elaborate on her alternative to the commission, which was the research project. Four delegates from three organisations were open to the research report. Shortly after presenting her research project, the premier left the meeting. The delegation continued to discuss the proposed research project and the commission with four members of the premier’s delegation. At no point was an agreement reached regarding the proposed research project. The meeting concluded with the delegation indicating emphatically that consultation with supporting organisations regarding the premier’s proposal would be discussed. The research project was never mooted as a preliminary investigation which would inform whether a commission is justifiable. In fact, during the brief time spent with the premier, she shelved the call for the commission and spent her time explaining the research project and listening to the views of individual delegates. We do not view these individual responses as a collective position. The “preliminary work” was never presented as a driver to determine whether the costs of a commission would be justifiable. We refute the allegation that we did not respond to the premier with regard to our rejection of the premier’s research project. On June 13, in response to the e-mail sent by Robert MacDonald (who was a member of the premier’s delegation) regarding the delegation’s position, we informed him of our rejection of the premier’s alternative to the commission. We emphatically indicated we would continue to lobby for such a commission. Consequently, we disagree that we did not inform the premier regarding our position. The reality is that even though government and civil society are offering services to children, the rising number of child killings warrant a thorough investigation.  We will continue to lobby for the commission of inquiry, regardless of attempts to diminish the importance of such a violence prevention mechanism. * Valdi Van Reenen-Le Roux  is the executive director of the Trauma Centre for Survivors of Violence and Torture. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Cape Argus