Washington - Is your organisation looking for its next new hire, that
superstar performer to take things to the next level? Be careful: Organizations
are greater than just one individual. If you're that superstar, remember to be a good team player. You'll feel better about your job and you'll perform at an
even higher level. Organisations spend a lot of resources to attract and retain
high performers who can outsell, out-produce and out-think others, but they
often don't think about how their addition will impact the current team. High performers do create benefits for the entire group.
When they do something good, it can reflect well on the whole group. This can
make leaders happier with the whole team and even lead to perks, such as
bonuses for the team. They can also inspire individuals to raise expectations
for themselves and bring up the achievements of the whole team. But high performers also can cause jealousy and envy among
other group members, who may worry they are getting the preferred work
assignments and highest pay. The new arrivals can also set the bar higher for
the whole team in the boss's eye, which could annoy some co-workers. Many managers miss or underestimate the conflict. They tell
these hotshot new recruits that they're the new stand-out, superstar employee,
but then they add them onto collaborative teams and tell them to fit right in. Those mixed signals set up high performers as targets for
aggression, exclusion and ridicule from other team members. And this can cause
them flounder on the team without peer support and even ultimately to leave the
organization. Along with four fellow researchers, I recently studied the
effects of adding new high-performers to work teams. We found that not only do
high achievers feel ostracised by peers who see them as threatening, they also
feel targeted for support by other peers who see them as beneficial. This paradox has high performers feeling caught in the
middle and the contradiction takes a toll. The push and pull of experiencing
both friendly and hostile responses from the team can be disorienting and more
harmful to one's work and health than hostility alone. The tension is only
amplified as more and more organisations put greater emphasis on teamwork. Read also: Glassdoor's top 25 jobs for pay lean toward tech But there are some things both managers and high performers
can do: For managers: 1. Anticipate conflict and pay attention to the team
climate. If you know that adding a high performer to the team might shake
things up, be ready to meet the potential conflict head-on. And understand that
team members' feelings don't just boil down to differences in pay. Make it
clear to team members that undermining high performance will not be tolerated. 2. Re-evaluate how you measure individual success. When
appropriate, maintain distinctive goals for individuals rather than setting
collective goals. But also create a more balanced performance review system
that values contributions beyond just accomplishing tasks (the dimension that
favors high performers most). These could include things like helping others, making
constructive suggestions and being a good team player - all critical individual
contributions for a well-run organization. 3. Emphasize how everyone wins. Talk up the benefits of
having a high performer on the team, like getting everyone closer to collective
group goals, and how they outweigh any threats. Also consider setting up star
performers as mentors who can help others in the group learn and grow. 4. Coach high performers to be team players. Encourage them
to think and act like part of the team. They'll be less likely to dismiss
others' contributions and hoard the credit and good assignments for themselves.
This will make them seem less threatening to other team members. 5. Provide emotional support. Both the high performer and
the other team members will need to feel like you hear their concerns and have
you in their corner. Watch for signs of isolation and disengagement with your
star performers and step in quickly if you see those signs. For high performers: 1. Be a friend. Make an effort to form strong bonds with
co-workers. 2. Share the love. Don't grab every opportunity in the group
and leave none for your co-workers. 3. Be a cheerleader. Respect your co-workers, help them
succeed by sharing your expertise, and be sure to celebrate their successes.
Make a point to congratulate a co-worker who finishes a big project, makes an
impressive sale, or hits a tight deadline. 4. Be humble. While you're celebrating others' achievements,
don't brag about your own or compare their success to yours. 5. Be perceptive. Don't get caught off guard by the mixed
feelings others have about you. 6. Ask for help. You won't have the answers to everything -
especially when you are new to an organization - so ask for help when you need
it. Other team members will appreciate your acknowledgement that you need their
expertise. Though word spreads quickly about individual performance and
team members are constantly comparing themselves, with a little effort, the
worst of these effects can hopefully be avoided. Bloomberg