Silverton – Ford’s local Focus range has been spiced up with a number of minor additions and upgrades, including the availability of a styling kit, enhanced gadgets pack and a new diesel engine. The 1.5-litre TDCi turbodiesel replaces the previous 1.6-litre unit and is slightly more powerful (up from 85kW to 88kW) while producing the same maximum torque figure of 270Nm. The motor is mated to a six-speed manual transmission. The 92kW/170kW 1-litre and 132kW/240Nm 1.5-litre turbopetrol engines continue as before in the regular petrol range, and same goes for the 184kW ST and 257kW RS hot hatch models. The Trend five-door hatch models (available in 1.0T, 1.5T and 1.5 TDCi guises) can now be ordered with a new ‘Styling Pack’. Ticking this option, (for R19 984) gives you an exterior styling kit that includes a unique lower bumper design with honeycomb intakes, side skirts, a rear spoiler and 17-inch alloy wheels. Bi-Xenon HID headlights with dynamic cornering functionality are also part of the deal here, as is a sunroof and dual-zone automatic climate control. But if you’re really big on gadgets, then Ford will steer you towards the Driver Assistance Pack that’s available on all Trend models (including sedans) for R17 089. The package gains the new Sync3 infotainment system, operated through a 20cm touch-screen with pinch, swipe, slide and scroll functionality. The system includes a 3D navigation system that offers voice guidance in a wide array of languages, even including Zulu and Afrikaans. Sync3 is also compatible with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. In addition to all that, the Driver Assistance package comes with a few active safety and convenience features, such as Lane Departure Warning, Lane Keeping Aid and Advanced Active Park Assist for hands-free parallel and perpendicular parking. Finally, the ST1, ST3 and RS hot hatches gain some new equipment, with parking sensors now fitted to all three and a reverse camera now standard in the ST3. Furthermore, the latter, along with the RS, is now available (optionally) with Sync3, including satnav, as well as a high-end 10-speaker audio system. FORD FOCUS PRICES <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> IOL Motoring  Like us on 

Facebook   Follow us on 

Twitter  