SPONSORED CONTENT Durban – South African Tourism board has selected Tourism KwaZulu-Natal as the successful bidder to host the newly rebranded Africa’s Travel Indaba for the next five years following a comprehensive bidding process which started with an expression of interest to all provinces. This was announced by President Jacob Zuma during the official opening of South African Tourism’s annual travel show, Indaba, which is taking place at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre (ICC) in Durban from 16 to 18 May 2017. The decision means that the newly renamed Africa’s Travel Indaba will be hosted by KwaZulu-Natal and Durban at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli ICC through a province-city partnership in May every year for the next five years, with an option to extend the hosting agreement for another five years. “We would like to thank all the bidding tourism authorities for their submissions, and congratulate the province of KwaZulu-Natal on winning the right to host Africa’s largest and most prestigious travel exhibition. We look forward to building on a strong partnership with Durban and KwaZulu-Natal to reinforce Africa Travel Indaba’s status as a premier African trade show committed to promoting and growing tourism on the continent,” said Dr Tanya Abrahamse, Chairperson of the South African Tourism Board  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. EThekwini Mayor, Zandile Gumede, said she was ecstatic about winning the global event until 2022. “This is an affirmation that the City has the resources, the world-class infrastructure and the capabilities of growing the Tourism Indaba to new heights. “We strongly believe that the new international direct flights, the City’s new infrastructural developments, new hotel investments and major tourism investments in the north of Durban have all contributed to the success of this win.” 