The film, which is set to be released in South Africa on 4th August, just in time for Women’s Month, tells the striking tale about a woman who was prepared to sacrifice everything to give birth to the great nation we all share today.  The film is based on the historical facts of Krotoa, a feisty, bright, young eleven-year-old girl, who is removed from her close-knit Khoi tribe to serve Jan van Riebeeck (Armand Aucamp – Ballade vir ’n Enkeling, Die Boekklub), her uncle’s trading partner, filmmakers explained. She is brought into the first Fort, established by the Dutch East India Company in 1652. There she grows into a visionary young woman, who grasps the Dutch language and culture so well that she rises to become an influential interpreter for van Riebeeck. Krotoa (Crystal Donna Roberts -Endless River, 7de Laan, Getroud met Rugby) ends up being rejected by her own Khoi people and destroyed by the Dutch, when she tries to find the middle way between the two cultures. The film, written by Kaye Ann Williams and Margaret Goldsmid, was created by a dynamic team of women, with acclaimed filmmaker Roberta Durrant as director and producer. “In comparison to men, very few women have been acknowledged for having an impact on South African history. During the struggle, women like Ruth First, Lillian Ngoyi, Bettie du Toit and Sophia Williams-du Bruyn stood their ground in the fight against the apartheid government. However, if we dig into South Africa’s rich history, we discover that there were other indigenous females – who contributed to the change and development of our great nation – even before the sisters who were involved in the struggle,” says Durrant.  “KROTOA (or Eva – a name given to her by the Dutch) is the tragic heroine of this movie. It is not only important to tell her story because of all her great achievements, but it is also necessary to highlight that she was caught between two ways of life and constantly forced to choose between these two cultures. Identity, a sense of belonging and reconciliation are strong, universal themes in this powerful tale. Especially because the identity of someone, who is in between two cultures, is very relevant in any multicultural society,” she adds Jacques Bessenger, Doen Lotz, Marcel van Heerden, Roeline Daneel, Brendon Daniels and Ernest St Clair also star in this critically acclaimed film. The other awards include: Award of Excellence at the International Film Festival for Women, Social Issues and Zero Discrimination Best of Show at the Depth of Field International Film Festival Platinum Award at the International Movie Awards Diamond Award at the Filmmakers World Festival Best of Show at the IndieFEST Film Awards Award of Excellence Special Mention: Women Filmmakers at the Accolade Global Film Competition World Platinum Award at the World Woman Awards