 Johannesburg – SACP general-secretary Blade Nzimande has hit out on State Capture saying corrective measures need to be taken to address critical issues facing the country. "Something like an alien substance has found its way into our movement and its contaminating the DNA of our politics," he said. Nzimande was speaking at the party's National Imbizo on Friday in Boksburg. He began his address in a somber mood reflecting on the current crisis faced by women in the country saying something needed to be done by us "as activists and as part of broader South African society" in ending the murders of women and girls in the country. "Men inflict violence on women and children and not only that but against each other," he said. Speaking further on the challenges political challenges faced by the country and the ANC's calls for a transformation in the economic sector Nzimande added: "Unless we radically transform the economy, there's a chance of undoing everything we've done since 1994... You can't have a country like South Africa that is dominated by four big banks." He also blasted the ANC questioning why Brian Molefe was re-appointed as Eskom CEO. "How do you re-employ Brian Molefe at Eskom?...that's perversion," he said.  The SACP's two-day Imbizo includes the party's alliance partners and civil society. At the end of the gathering, a declaration will be signed signaling possible steps to solve the issues faced by the alliance. Meanwhile, in his response to Nzimande's speech, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe highlighted that the SACP had to take an active role in assisting the ruling party to deal with its challenges.  "Talk to the ANC and not at the ANC," he said commenting on recent calls by the communist party and Cosatu's for President Jacob Zuma to step down. He also added the conversation around radical transformation had to be tackled head on and not glamourised.  "If we are going to use it to look good, to save face, it is not going to work," he said. On recent statements by some political parties such as the UDM, EFF and DA for MPs to vote using their conscience in the motion of no confidence bid against Zuma, Mantashe said he disagreed with this notion saying there is a vast difference between MPs voting at a conscious level and using their conscience.    noni.mokati@inl.co.za  Politics and Development