“As cycling gains in popularity, as both a hobby and a professional sport, it is important for the public to know that it has no credible link to urologic disease or sexual dysfunction,” said Dr Kevin McVary, a spokesperson for the American Urological Association. “Men and women can
benefit from the cardiovascular exercise of cycling without worrying about negative side effects to their urinary tract or sexual performance,” McVary, the chairman of urology at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, said. Prolonged pressure to the perineum, or groin area, can be painful and cause loss of feeling in the area. Previous studies have suggested this groin pain could lead to erectile dysfunction in men and also take a toll on women’s sexual health, the researchers said. To investigate this issue, the researchers surveyed 4000 men involved in sports clubs around the world. Almost two-thirds were cyclists who did not swim or run, and 37% were swimmers or runners who never biked. The men were asked about their physical activity, sexual health and prostate symptoms. . But bikers were more likely to have perineal numbness - regardless of the type of bike seat they used. The researchers noted, however, that cyclists had higher average sexual health scores than the other athletes. Meanwhile, a separate study involving nearly 2700 female athletes found that cycling has no notable effect on
women’s sexual or urinary health. Based on questionnaires filled out by the athletes, the researchers also found the female cyclists had higher scores in sexual function. In addition, urinary symptoms were no different from those of the other female athletes. However, the study showed the women who rode bikes were at greater risk for urinary tract infections. Those who rode more than three times a week for more than two years were also more likely to develop perineal numbness and sores on their rear end. The researchers defined high-intensity cycling as biking for longer than two years, more than three times a week and more than 40 kilometres daily on average. - The New York Times