14 million. That’s the number of people who go without food in South Africa, every day. That is almost a quarter of the population, meaning that one in four people goes without food everyday. It’s a worldwide problem, with an even greater number (795 million) of people going hungry daily, (239 million of that number, are in sub-Saharan Africa) hence the need for World Hunger Day to be launched, six years ago, by The Hunger Project. World Hunger Day aims to inspire people all over the world to show their solidarity and support for the women, men and children that are ending their own hunger and poverty. It is about raising awareness of chronic hunger and about celebrating the achievements of millions of people who are already taking actions to end their own hunger. Malnourished children often have stunted growth and delayed physically, emotional and mental development as nourishment for children begins in utero. Chronic hunger persists when people lack the opportunity to earn enough income, to be educated and gain skills, to meet basic health needs and to have a voice in the decisions that affect their community. And yet, food waste continues to be a problem, with South Africa wasting more than R60 billion worth of food in 2015, according to a report by Oxfam. That amount has increased to R61,5 billion. Worldwide, R36 trillion worth of food goes to waste every year. And yet, there are close to a billion people going hungry every day. To intervene, FoodForward SA has partnered with Tru-Cape Apples and Food Lover’s Market, in an effort to cut down on the number of people who go without food every day. The organisation partners with major food retailers and manufacturers to rescue edible food before it goes to waste. This food is distributed to the 600 NGO’s it assists nationally. Last year, they produced 14 500 000 meals. In a campaign that ends today, when shoppers at Food Lover’s Market purchased Tru-Cape apples, they contributed to feeding 250 000 people. Head of Earth Lovers, “At Food Lover’s Market we aspire to a South Africa that is hunger free. With 14 million South Africans going hungry everyday, Food Lover’s Market - through its Earth Lovers pillar - want to make a sustainable, impactful difference in the communities in which we operate. A big part of this is to address hunger through our partnership with FoodForward SA. A well balanced and sufficient diet can be the first step in breaking the cycle of poverty and hunger,” says Andrew Millson, head of Earth Lovers. “We take our responsibility for the livelihoods of 15, 200 people involved in our business very seriously as we all rely on the successful sale of South African apples and pears to put food on our tables,” says Tru-Cape Managing Director Roelf Pienaar. “The good news is that Tru-Cape apples are energy rich and nutrient dense and a perfectly portable food which is affordable by many. Tru-Cape is proud to be associated with Food Lover’s Market and what The Hunger Project represents.”