It’s a wrap for the 2017 edition of Tourism Indaba, now named Africa’s Travel Indaba. The two day event kickstarted on Tuesday, May 16, with president of South Africa Jacob Zuma  officially opening the event at the Durban International Conference centre. During a closing press conference, role players including Sisa Ntshona of SA Tourism, Amanda Kotze-Nhlapo, Lindiwe Rakharebe of the Durban ICC, Phillip Sithole of Durban Tourism and Phindile Makwakwa from Tourism KZN shared their feedback from this year’s action packed event. This is what happened at #Indaba2017. There is a new name and logo The organisers decided that change was needed. Tourism Indaba became Africa’s Travel Indaba this week. The new look is fresh and represents a connection between South Africa and other African countries. Personally, I believe it embodies the true meaning of Africa. Durban the home of Africa’s Travel Indaba for the next 5 years South African Tourism board has selected Tourism KwaZulu-Natal as the successful bidder to host the newly rebranded Africa’s Travel Indaba for the next five years following a comprehensive bidding process which started with an expression of interest to all provinces. Date will remain on a weekday This year’s event changed from a weekend event to a weekday one. The decision was met with mixed emotions, but judging by the turnout it was a good one. Amanda Kotze-Nhlapo of SA Tourism said the new weekday set up worked well for businesses and buyers. According to Sisa Ntshona, the CEO of SA Tourism, many did not like the weekend dates as it often clashed with Mother’s Day. Start planning, next year’s date has been revealed The date for next year’s event has been decided.  Africa’s Travel Indaba will take place from 8-10 May, 2018. Here is another reason to plan a holiday in Durban. I Do Tourism launched to increase domestic travel South African Tourism launched I Do Tourism (IDT), an initiative that seeks to remind South Africans of the importance of the tourism industry and the role they can play as advocates for South Africa and for tourism. I Do Tourism will bring this message to the attention of the South African public by reminding them of tourism’s impact on the economy. The campaign will also showcase members of the industry, and provide a space for them to share their stories. There will be more experiences for guests next year The panel promised to make upcoming shows more innovative and filled with more experiences for guests. Ntshona said many travellers wanted to feel, eat and live like a local, something they hoped to promote next year. Hidden gems pavilion a success This year saw the launch of the Hidden Gems pavilion of Indaba where 90 small businesses from across the nine provinces showcased their experiences to guests. The aim was to promote domestic travel and to introduce businesses to Indaba without them having to take a whole stand. R200 million rand beach promenade upgrade Durban is marketing itself well these days, but in order to remain attractive much more work needs to be done. Head of Durban Phillip Sithole revealed there will be a multi-million rand extension on the beach promenade from Ushaka Marine to the Waterfront area later this year. clinton.moodley@inl.co.za