Having already launched the regular versions of its facelifted Clio hatchback range late last year and then the warm-performing GT-Line last month, Renault SA has now turned up the heat all the way to max with the release of two high-performance RS models. The upgraded RS will be available in two flavours: RS Lux (hot) and RS Trophy (extra hot). The pair are powered by Renault’s 1.6-litre turbopetrol engine, tuned to 147kW in the Lux and 162kW in the Trophy, both producing their power at 6050rpm. Both are good for 260Nm of twist, however the Trophy has an extra 20Nm available on overboost. The two versions also share a six-speed dual-clutch automated gearbox with steering-mounted paddles. Yet whereas the Lux (above) has newly designed 17-inch alloy wheels and a more balanced ‘sports’ chassis configured with everyday driving in mind, the Trophy (below) gains gloss black 18-inch alloys with Michelin Pilot Super Sport tyres, a lower and more hard-core ‘Trophy’ chassis as well as an Akrapovic exhaust system and the satisfaction of not sharing its name with a bar of soap. As for styling, the facelift brings new C-shaped LED lights and a bolder bumper incorporating a chequered-flag-shaped adaptive lighting system below the headlights. The RS is also set apart by unique taillights, spoiler and rear bumper, with the latter incorporating a real working diffuser and twin exhaust pipes. Shouty cabin decor comes in the form of red detailing around the air vents, red stitching on the steering wheel, gear lever and handbrake, and sport bucket seats, upholstered in black leather in the Trophy’s case. As with regular Clios, the central dashboard gets a fresh design. The standard features list includes Launch Control, RS Drive configurator and Monitor, 17.8cm touch-screen audio and navigation system, cruise control, auto lights and wipers and a start button. Prices, listed below, include a five-year/150 000km mechanical warranty and three-year/30 000km service plan. PRICES <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> ALTERNATIVES <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  