Durban – If you want a taste of the golden tipple, Whisky Live is just around the corner – appropriately so, as today, May 20, is World Whisky Day. From June 1-3 at the Wavehouse, Gateway, all things whisky will be on show, and Durbanites will get a taste of the finest. Organisers share some tips on how to taste whisky when you’re among the connoisseurs: 1. Nose the whisky by putting your nose right into the glass and breathing in gently, keeping your mouth open to involve your taste buds. 2. Take a sip, swill the whisky around for at least 30 seconds, coating every area of your mouth and think about the “mouthfeel”. Around the connoisseur, use words such as chewy, explosive, mouthwatering and dry. 3. After swallowing, is the finish lingering, bold, or subtle? Are there different flavours in the finish other than those you identified on the nose? 4. Add a splash of water, diluting the alcohol and releasing even more flavour. A host of whisky masters will be present at the show, offering expert advice. On hand will be Islay single malts Laphroaig, Bunnahabhain, Bruichladdich and Ardbeg. Lighter, fruitier Speyside and Highland whiskies are also on offer, as well as The Macallan Fine Oak, The Glenlivet, Aberlour and Glenmorangie. A range of Irish favourites will be on offer such as Tullamore D.E.W. (taste the rare 14-year-old – only 70 casks were released in 2015), Bushmill’s, Jameson Caskmates, Green Spot, Yellow Spot, Midleton and Powers John’s Lane, as well as newcomer to the Whisky Live circuit, The Pogues, named after the Irish Celtic rock band of the same name. Jack Daniel’s, Woodford Reserve and Maker’s Mark will represent American whiskey while award-winning SA brands Bain’s Cape Mountain Whisky and Three Ships will be presented by master distiller Andy Watts. Here you can taste the Three Ships 15-year-old Pinotage Cask Finish, which is a world first and proudly South African. Tickets cost R200 from www.ticketpros.co.za. Entry includes a glass bottle of Consol Still Water, 16 whisky tasting vouchers, a tasting glass and also a South African Whisky Handbook when voucher cards are returned on exit. Tickets are R230 at the door.  For more information visit www.whiskylive.co.za, e-mail info@whiskylive.co.za, Tweet @whiskyliveSA or on Facebook/WhiskyLiveSA.  And you can win Two lucky readers will win a bottle of Gordon Graham’s Black Bottle each and double tickets to the Whisky Live event. SMS TIOSBlackBottle, followed by your name and surname, to 33258 by Wednesday at noon. SMSes charged at R1.50. Terms and conditions apply. Three lucky readers will each stand a chance to win four tickets to the Craft Fest taking place on June 16 at the Shongweni Farmers and Craft Market. To stand a chance of winning, SMS TIOSCraft to 33258 followed by your name and number, by midday on Wednesday  May 24. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY