It was based on an extract from Pieter-Louis Myburgh’s book, The Republic of Gupta, and told the fascinating story of how the notoriously scandal-prone brothers from Saxonwold have made telling inroads into the gentlemen's game. No one is suggesting there was any hanky-panky in the Guptas’ foray into the world of bats, balls and bouncers. The brothers just happen to have sharpened their wheeling and dealing talents to a fine art, having honed their skills in the boardrooms of state utility companies from which they secured multimillion-rand contracts. All it took for the Guptarisation of South African cricket was strategic sponsorship deals. Through their Sahara Computers the Guptas own the naming rights of three of the country's most famous cricket stadiums, including Sahara Stadium Kingsmead. And to facilitate this coup, they pulled off a public relations master-stroke by roping-in former national cricket captain Graeme Smith as Sahara’s “brand ambassador”. Sahara couldn't have chosen a better ally because Smith is said to have been the kingpin of a tight clique within the national squad. How complete is the Guptarisation of cricket is hard to tell, although the family did make significant alterations to the Protea team’s schedule for a tour to India several years ago. What we do know is the Guptas are on a sticky wicket over claims that they exercise undue influence on critical decisions in government. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa called for an inquiry into the allegations of state capture after Mcebisi Jonas publicly accused the Guptas of offering him R600000 in a black plastic bag to accept the finance minister position. Will the Guptas’ encrouching influence on the affairs of the CSA spill over into appointments at executive level? Will the day soon come when they have a say in the Proteas’ tour plans and itinerary? Will they influence the selection of the national team? If I were AB de Villiers or Kagiso Rabada, I’d be wary of taking out the family garbage in black bags, lest people get the wrong impression. dennis.pather@telkomsa.net Independent Media