Tickets cost R200 per person (kids under 10 get in for free), which gives access to a two-wheeler fest of static displays and on-track activities. Displaying their latest motorcycles will be Aprilia, BetaRacing, BMW, Can-Am, CSR, Ducati, Harley-Davidson, Honda, Husqvarna, Hyosung, Indian, KTM, Linhai, MV Agusta, Polaris, Royal Enfield, Suzuki, Yamaha, and Zontes. Visitors will be able to experience some of these bikes on the circuit for between R60 and R160 a test ride, in association with ZABikers.co.za. Online circuit test ride sales are now closed but remaining rides are for sale on a first come, first served basis. For adventurous types, there is also the opportunity to test ride a 2km off-road course for R60. On Sunday the Dunlop Charity Motorcycle Ride will see thousands of motorcyclists riding from Fairlands shopping centre to Kyalami, finishing with two laps around the circuit. To participate costs R40 over and above the Bike Festival ticket. Other entertainment includes evening stunt shows on the Friday and Saturday by local and international riders; a Custom Bike Build Championship; a Pride of Ownership Classic Motorcycle Display; and a large line up of live bands including Boxer, Jerry & the Bandits, State Society, Jasper Dan and Deity’s Muse, to mention just a few. Those who have never been on a motorcycle can also get involved at the Harley-Davidson Jump Start machine to get a feel for what it’s like to ride in a safe and supervised environment. SuperGP racing Those who haven’t yet earned their motorcycle license can practice their skills with the K53 Training School on a specially laid out course. GAS Sports will host a round of the Deod SuperGP Champions Trophy for 1000cc superbikes, where visitors can look forward to seeing more than 30 of SA’s top riders battle it out. Prizes More than a million rand’s worth of prizes will be given away at the festival including a Suzuki GSX-R 750, a Harley Davidson Street Rod, and a Victory Custom Judge. Children’s activities will include pocket bikes, a mechanical bull, and a climbing wall, while numerous food and craft beer stalls will ensure show visitors stay well fed and hydrated. The festival runs from 11am to 8pm on Friday, 9am to 9pm on Saturday, and 9am to 6.30pm on Sunday. For more information and to buy tickets, visit www.southafricabikefestival.com.  Star Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 