Somewhere in Namibia – So you think you’ve got what it takes to be a true motorcycle adventurer? Now Honda is challenging you to put your riding skills, adaptability and psychological mettle to the test. What Honda is calling the Quest-True Adventure motorcycling challenge will involve 20 carefully selected riders on specially prepared Africa Twin adventure tourers, culminating in a seriously challenging 12 day event in an as-yet-undisclosed part of Namibia. And you could be one of those riders. You can submit an entry application at any Honda dealership in South Africa or Namibian; entries will close on 17 July, after which 40 candidates will be chosen to attend a Boot Camp selection phase at the end of July, run by extreme competition organiser Specialised Adventures. “We’re not looking for enduro racers or the next Dakar winner,” said Specialised Adventures managing director Hardy de Kock. “The top 20 will be chosen on their appetite for adventure, their willing to learn and adapt, their ability to function in a team environment and and their mental toughness under pressure.” The 10 teams of two finalists each will be announced at the end of the Boot Camp, and they’ll be flown to a secret destination in northern Namibia at the beginning of September to take part in the all-expenses-paid Quest-True Adventure on specially prepared Honda Africa Twins. During the 2800km ride they’ll be evaluated on machine maintenance and recovery, navigation, observation skills and long days in the saddle over challenging terrain, as well as challenges designed to test their ability to improvise and adapt when things go pear-shaped. And the winning team will each get to keep one of the bikes for a year, with fuel sponsored by Honda. “Playtime is over,” said De Kock. “Almost two weeks of non-stop challenges is going to stretch the finalists to the limits; it’s going to be the adventure of a lifetime!” More information from your Honda dealership; are you up for it?   IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 