ANCWL provincial chairwoman, Roseline Tyler, pointed out yesterday that the Province should take pride in the premier exposing alleged corruption within ANC ranks. The Office of the Premier confirmed that she had met with the Hawks but did not wish to comment on whether the meeting pertained to R26 million that was allegedly sanctioned by officials from the Department of Finance, Economic Development and Tourism and well-known ANC figures and allegedly paid out to fund the ANC provincial elective conference. It was reported that this prompted Lucas to reshuffle her cabinet, which saw the recall of the MEC for Finance, Economic Development and Tourism Mac Jack, who was replaced with ANCWL deputy secretary Gail Parker. The department in turn denied that any funds were sourced from the provincial Economic Growth and Development Fund. Tyler stated that it was “unfortunate” that individuals within the organisation were convinced that they had free access to state power and resources. “The ANCWL notes with utter disgust the vicious attacks on the person of the honourable premier and some of our women leaders in cabinet by some amongst us, who are hell-bent on protecting individuals alleged to be involved in corruption. “No longer must corruption be swept under the carpet or whistle-blowers be harassed and purged. “It is unfortunate that there are individuals in our organisation that believe that they own this ANC and have a divine right to be elected as MECs. There must be no room for corrupt, lazy and arrogant leaders.” She added that the premier’s decision to reshuffle her cabinet was a “clear demonstration” that the ANC was serious about good governance. “The ANCWL will watch with a hawk’s eye any further corruption and women leader bashing by certain men who find their daily joy in abusing our premier on all fronts. Also, their sexist, racist remarks are now becoming nauseating. Sexist male chauvinists who call themselves leaders must be removed from society and be relegated to the dustbin of history, because it is where they belong.” Tyler called on all women to defend and applaud the premier for her courage. “All women need to understand how those individuals currently dealing with our premier seek to employ racial antagonism and male superiority to undermine the strategic objectives of our national democratic revolution.” Diamond Fields Advertiser