I don’t mean to cause any trouble, but please hear my heart and join me in supporting this community (and many others like it) by creating a media awareness and by prayer (most importantly). Dear gangsters of Lavender Hill: Please STOP keeping the community in a constant state of fear! STOP shooting at each other (most of the time you miss and hit innocent people) while our kids are travelling and walking to and from school. STOP robbing these kids of their childhoods! You’ve had one, so why rob these kids of theirs? STOP thinking that revenge, turf and drugs are more important than the lives you put at stake daily. STOP harassing the teenage boys to join your gangs. STOP intimidating these kids so that you can feel powerful. To the parents of the gangsters: STOP covering up for your kids! If they’re doing wrong, then piemp (rat them out) them, but don’t stone parents who protest against the actions of your kids. STOP thinking it’s lekker to live off ill-gotten gains because someone got robbed or murdered for that TV, cellphone or money that you so enjoy. STOP being enablers and start reading and living out the “spare the rod and spoil the child” scriptures. To the kids and families who suffer because of the above-mentioned groups: Your government and ward councillors have failed you. STOP falling for their empty promises around election time. Continue to protest, fight and make your plight known to the media. Don’t stop fighting for your kids, parents. Kids, I’m so sorry that you suffer daily and that you don’t know the joys of living in a safer place. I’m sorry your world is ugly and full of fear. I’m sorry that SAPS and WCED and all other law enforcement have failed you. I’m sorry that we can’t do more to keep you safe. I’m sorry that you don’t know what it’s like to live in a place where you don’t need to duck when bullets are flying while you’re playing in the park, walking over a field or sitting in your classroom. I’m sorry you look up in fear and anxiety when you hear emergency service sirens drive past and that you worry about the safety of your family. I’m sorry that you’re not 100% happy and that your nightmares keep you from sleep. I’m sorry that you live a nightmare each day! To the school body: Don’t stop loving our kids. Don’t stop being passionate. Don’t look at your problem child and judge him, but look at the problem of the child. Continue to voice your concerns and to challenge every bigwig in charge. Continue to fight for these kids and families who are too afraid to fight. Continue to pray. Continue to be empathetic when your kid fails to do homework, falls asleep in class or is too hyper or too anxious. Be sensitive to the needs of our babies and to nurture them and to teach them that the world is a better place. Continue to make your babies feel faith and hope for a better tomorrow. And most importantly – continue to be yourself, because sometimes you’re the only functional and loving adult these babies have. Written by a Lavender Hill teacher whose name is being withheld * The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus