Riyadh - Saudis took to social media on Saturday to praise US
President Donald Trump's daughter, Ivanka, with at least one
proposing marriage in a video posted on Twitter. Wearing a long-sleeved, black-and-white dress with no head scarf,
Ivanka landed in the Saudi capital on Saturday morning as part of
Trump's visit to the oil-rich kingdom on the first leg of his
international tour to the Middle East and Europe. The Arabic hashtag Bint Trump, which means Trump's Daughter, was
trending internationally on Twitter, with some men competing to
praise her beauty. "We should enhance our relations with Trump and guarantee his
daughter many investments so she would intensify her visits to our
country," Twitter user Rakan al-Atibi wrote on Twitter. Another user felt sorry that the fair-skinned Ivanka would have to
swelter under the blazing sun of Saudi Arabia. Temperatures in Riyadh
soared to more than 40 degrees Celsius on Saturday. In a video posted on Twitter, a man wearing traditional Saudi clothes
introduces himself as Badr bin Fahd and proposes to Ivanka,
mispronouncing her name. Addressing King Salman, Badr said: "I ask our king, Custodian of the
Two Holy Mosques, for the daughter of US President Trump, Evikana's
hand in marriage." Another user tweeted: "First time I see a true woman," accompanied
with two hearts. Not all men were drawn to the 35-year-old former fashion model, who
has a 5-year-old daughter. "My eyes can only see girls of my country, especially southerners
with their beauty and modesty, no make up or [cosmetic] surgeries,"
Ali Al-Zahrani wrote on Twitter. Some Saudi women hinted at feelings of jealousy over the Ivanka-craze
on Twitter, expressing interest in Ivanka's husband and other men
travelling with them. "I can have a daughter who is more beautiful than Ivanka, if you
bring me someone like the guy wearing a red tie," wrote a woman,
under the name Nono, referring to Ivanka's husband Jared Kushner or
another man travelling with Trump's entourage. DPA