There are many memorial lectures being held in honour of a variety of Struggle heroes. There has even been a “Jacob Zuma memorial lecture”, in honour of the very much alive president who is also the current ANC leader. These lectures are a platform for candidates to throw as much shade at their opponents without mentioning them. They also position themselves as the panacea to all the ills “facing our movement”. For some reason almost all of them sound angry with someone, the elephant that is never in the room. As the ANC moves closer to the 54th national elective conference, there will also be an upsurge in political hit jobs that will play themselves out in mainstream and social media. Expect allegations against the candidates to abound in Sunday newspapers. It seems it is no longer if, but when, prominent politicians will feature in front pages and trend on social media for all the wrong reasons. Last week it was the turn of Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe. The Sunday Times reported the 64-year-old politician had exchanged several improper text messages and emails with a 29-year-old female government photographer. The story was problematic for a number of reasons. Chief among them was that Radebe occupies a powerful position that would have made it difficult for the young woman to reject his advances if she wished. From her leaked texts to him it appears she was at pains to stonewall his attempts without being abrasive. Radebe could have been seen as someone who uses the authority of his office to demand sexual favours from his government underlings. Radebe’s response to the crisis was the closest you can get to a textbook example of how to manage a damaging sex scandal. US lawyer and prominent crisis management specialist Lanny Davis says if you have truth to tell you must tell it early, tell it all and tell it yourself. Davis should know what he is talking about. He was president Bill Clinton’s chief spokesman for handling scandal matters. He was responsible for briefing reporters on damaging details of Clinton’s affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky. Davis realised very early on that he was never going to be able to turn bad news into good news. What he could do, however, was to place the bad news in its proper context and work with reporters to present a fuller picture. Radebe did not allow the scandal to simmer, a mistake many South African politicians make. The longer a scandal stays in the news the more likely it is that it will define the responsible person. How long a scandal stays in the media and on the lips of people depends on how soon the truth is told by the impacted person. Radebe came out hours after the story broke and faced The Star  with the truth. He confessed about all that was material to the story and apologised. He did not send his spokesperson to do the dirty work for him. He did it himself. Furthermore, Radebe ensured all the stakeholders that may have been offended by his “lapse of judgement” were at least catered for in his apology or, at best, placated by it. First, he apologised to the young woman he had pressured into acting inappropriately with him. That way he took some steam out of the anger of those who viewed the matter from the point of the view of the young woman and also the gender equality movement. Second, he apologised to his wife. Asking for forgiveness from his wife was not only about making things right with her, it was also about appeasing those among his stakeholders who were offended by the act of straying from his marriage and seeking the attention of another woman. Third, Radebe apologised to the nation and the ANC in particular for the embarrassment that his actions caused it. He acknowledged that the party and its reputation are affected by the shenanigans of its leaders who should know better. Furthermore, Radebe went to Struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, accompanied by his wife, to personally apologise for his blunder. It is difficult to tell if the apology would have been that prompt and far reaching had there been no December ANC election for Radebe to worry about. However, the apology also served to position him as a responsive politician who is in touch with the mood of the electorate. That Madikizela-Mandela accepted the apology and counselled him should put the matter to bed, at least from the party point of view. The big question is: how will the scandal affect Radebe’s bid for ANC president? He is among at least 10 party leaders who have indicated they are available for election to the highest ANC office at the December conference in Gauteng. In Africa there are very few examples of sex scandals ending political careers. The reason could be that we are a continent in which patriarchy still rules. It could also be that we generally believe sex matters are an individual’s private business with their spouse. In the US, sex scandals are known to torpedo political careers. One of the factors there is that the US is home to the world’s largest Christian population. A big part of that group is formed by the influential evangelicals. Many US politicians seek the vote of this group and often pretend to adhere to fastidious rules of personal conduct. They are often forced to resign when they are exposed for deviant behaviour. In Western Europe the situation is slightly different. Sex scandals end political careers in some countries, and not in others. In Britain a sex scandal can put brakes on a politician’s career, whereas in countries like France and Italy the situation is different. Former French president Francois Mitterrand was known to have a wife and a mistress while he was holding office. During his funeral his two women stood with each other at the graveyard. In Italy numerous sex scandals had very little impact on the career of former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. At some point he was charged with having sex with a girl who was a year below consenting age. However, no-one beat his record of being the longest-serving post-war prime minister of Italy. Here at home there is no evidence to suggest that sex scandals have a big impact on ANC elections. In 2011 Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba was accused of having an extra-marital affair with the wife of a comrade. A year later he received the highest votes in the election for the national executive committee, the ANC’s highest decision making body between conferences. Zuma, a proud polygamist with past scandals involving sex with women who aren’t his wives, remains president to this day. Radebe’s sex scandal will probably not have any
discernible impact on his presidential bid. Having served all democratically elected presidents as minister he has proven to have staying power and a formidable ability to reinvent himself. However, his prospects of winning the ANC presidency remain stubbornly low.  *  Nkosi is an independent strategic communications and crisis management specialist. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent 