Friendships are part of a valuable support structure. Reporter, Sacha van Niekerk chatted to Rakhi Beekrum, counselling psychologist and resident psychologist at eThekwini Hospital & Heart Centre, who shared the seven typed of friends you might encounter.  The Good-time Guy/Girl  This friend is always available for parties and celebrations, but may not always be there when the going gets tough. This is a great friend to be around when you need to de-stress and let your hair down, though they may not be the best option when you need sound advice.    The Leader  This is the friend who thrives from being in charge – by making plans and being the centre of attention. The leader is happiest when all friends comply with his/her plans, but may strongly dislike others suggesting alternatives. The leader is a useful friend when plans need to be made.    The Agony Aunt/Uncle  There’s always that one friend you can rely on for sound wisdom and advice. This friend is the good listener, non-judgemental, empathic and often wise beyond their years. The agony aunt/uncle always knows what to say to make you feel better.    The Drainer  Friendships are meant to be reciprocal relationships, but there are some friends who just take without giving anything in return. Beware of the negative energy that such ‘friendships’ may transmit to you. These ‘friends’ are needy and expect you to be available to them, while not offering the same in return. They are also likely to be complainers and gossips.   The Competitive Friend  This friend never seems to have matured since high school and is constantly competing to outdo the rest of the group from driving a better car to having a fancier birthday party for the child.    The Know-It-All  This friend seems to know everything about everything and is a useful well of information and knowledge. This could be your go-to person when you’re stuck and need ideas for something     The BFF  This is your closest friend who you can trust to be completely honest with you – even if it’s not a truth you may be prepared to hear. This friend will remain loyal and take your secrets to the grave.  