 Former porn star Sophie Brussaux recently alleged that she is carrying the baby of the Fake Love hit maker. While he has yet to comment, we thought it would be a good idea to reflect on some the A-list stars Drizzy has been rumoured to be attached to, as well as the women he has openly dated. READ: Ex-porn star claims to be having Drake's child Here are some the noteworthy stars that have linked to the king of feelings: Rihanna – 2010 on & off until 2016   Drake and our Bajan princess have been on again and off again for the longest time. In 2010 the Blem rapper hinted that they were kind-of dating, however, nothing was confirmed by Rihanna. The have subsequently made a number of hits and tried the publicly dating thing with Drake confessing his adoration for Rihanna at the 2016 MTV Music Awards. Things quickly calmed down and Rihanna still has either confirmed nor denied dating Drake. Tyra Banks – 2013  The America's Next Top Model host did admit in an interview with that she went on a date with Drake. However, after that the two went there separate ways. Nicki Minaj - 2014  A post shared by Nicki Minaj (@nickiminaj) on Feb 1, 2017 at 8:19am PST  Karrueche Tran – 2015   Drake and Chris Brown have had a tumultuous relationship. It all stems from a rumour that when Chris went to prison Drake had a thing on with Karrueche. The two have never responded to the claims but Drake did fly miss Tran out to Toronto. Serena Williams – 2016 #BAEWATCH #Drake showing his boo #SerenaWilliams support at her show! #PressPlay A post shared by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Sep 15, 2015 at 3:07pm PDT One of the few official high profile relationships was between the tennis star and Drake. The publicly declared their love for each other and Drake was spotted at most of Serena's tennis matches. Clearly, it didn't workout since Serena is engaged to Alexis Ohanian and is pregnant with their first child. Taylor Swift – 2016 Is that velvet? 🌺 A post shared by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on Nov 4, 2016 at 1:34am PDT Late in 2016 rumours started swirling that Drake and Snake Swift might be dating. Amidst all the speculation Drake then posted a picture of him and Taylor in the studio and his fans lost their minds. Luckily, it was all rumours and the two of have not been linked romantically since then. Jennifer Lopez – 2016 😍 <-------- Lotta those A post shared by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on Dec 11, 2016 at 3:48am PST  After a very cosy Instagram post in December 2016, the two all but confirmed that they are dating and were seen being out and about. The two of them seemed smitten with each other and even spent New Year's Eve together. Most people thought it was a publicity stunt and assumed the relationship was fake. They then quietly ended things in early 2017 and Jennifer is currently dating Alex Rodriguez.      