Singapore - Noble Group Ltd.’s shares plunged to the lowest level in 14
years after it warned of a first-quarter loss and as S&P Global Ratings
said the commodity trader’s debt-load is unsustainable given its current
earnings path. A share of the Hong Kong-based company, which counts China
Investment Corp. as one of its largest shareholders, slumped as much as 23
percent to 99.5 Singapore cents, the lowest since February 2003, and was at
S$1.01 at 2:11 p.m. in Singapore. This means Noble’s market value has shrunk to less than $1
billion in US dollar terms, a shadow of the $10.2 billion trading behemoth it
was in 2010. Noble said Tuesday it will record a $130 million net loss in
the first quarter because of wrong-way bets on coal prices and dwindling
liquidity, compared with a profit of $40.5 million a year ago. That’s just the latest in a string of setbacks for Noble,
once the largest commodity trader in Asia, which has been selling assets and
cutting costs to prop up its finances after a torrid few years marked by
losses, credit-rating downgrades and a share-price collapse. “If you assess their earnings power of the past one year, based
on the current profit runway, their debt-load is not sustainable,” said Danny
Huang, director of corporate ratings at S&P in Hong Kong, adding that bank
support remains important for Noble. “The headline loss of $130 million doesn’t look very good and
we have to see what the reasons are for that, even though one would be
reasonable not to expect them to report a huge recovery.” Noble’s shares have plunged 41 percent in 2017 even as it
undertook a share consolidation to avoid penny stock status. That followed an
80 percent slump in 2015 and 2016 combined. The company which declined to offer
fresh comment on Thursday is scheduled to release results for the three months
ended March after markets close, with executives holding an earnings call at
6:30 p.m. ‘Under Siege’ Noble didn’t renew a $615 million revolving credit line that
was repaid when it came due this week, according to people familiar with the
matter, a sign that it’s left with more expensive funding including a junk bond
that costs four times the credit line it repaid. Noble’s 6.75 percent 2020
notes lost 3.4 cents to 87.6 cents on the dollar, according to
Bloomberg-compiled prices. They earlier fell to 85.2 cents, the lowest
since Jan 3. Read also: 'They'll save themselves while SA sinks' Noble highlighted at its annual results in February that
liquidity constraints had clipped the wings of its traders, with Chief
Financial Officer Paul Jackaman telling investors that it was unable to pursue
new higher margin opportunities because it wanted to preserve liquidity. “The setbacks just keep coming for this under-siege
company,” said Nicholas Teo, a trading strategist at KGI Securities Pte in
Singapore. “What has come as a surprise, though, is the size of the loss
expected. One would have thought they may have scaled down bets in view of their
reduced capital base.” Bloomberg