Finding cheap flights isn’t rocket science -it just
takes some flexibility and a little research. Global search platform,
Cheapflights.co.za, has pulled together the best tips for savvy travellers
wanting to get away, but without spending a bundle.  “Different airline ticket providers – from the
big online agencies to local travel providers – simply don’t have access to all
of the same airlines, flights, availability and pricing. So no single airline,
consolidator or agency will always have the lowest airfare, nor will they
always have the best selection of airline tickets. You have to weigh your options.
And that’s where we can help”, explains Andrew Shelton,
Managing Director of Cheapflights.  Some tips
for being flexible and saving money include:  Consider alternative airports  Shelton advises considering other airports in the
area when comparing options.“While one airport may be ago-to because of
convenience, you’ll never know how much you could save if you flew out of (or
into) another airport nearby. For example, when flying from Port Elizabeth,
consider other airports like George and East London, and when heading to a
destination like New York, consider all your options – JFK, LaGuardia and even
Newark”.  Choose your dates wisely  Everyone wants to depart at 7 p.m. on a Friday
night, which means that those flights tend to become quite pricey veryquickly.
The same goes for Saturday mornings or any other time when it’s the most
convenient for the majority of travellers. Those who can make it work for their
scheduleshould try flying on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, rather than on
the weekend. Overnight flights are another great way to save – not only are
they often cheaper, but there’s no need to pay for accommodation for the night
in the air. Select a window seat, bring a neck pillow and (try to) get theZzzs.  Fly on public holidays  Travelling over a public holiday? Consider
swapping apre-public holiday flight for a flight on the actual day. Not only
will itlikely save money, but it’ll skip a percentage of the crowds who have
the same travel plans.  Pick a deal, not a destination  Don’t settle on one destination until you see
what’s out there. Looking for a beach holiday? Don’t limit yourself to Ibiza.
“If you know the type of trip you want to take (be it a beach holiday, a long
weekend in a city, a ski trip or an outdoorsy adventure), there may be
destinations with all that on offer, for much less than the destination you
originally had in mind. Do some research, compare your options and you’ll
likely walk away with a trip booked that ticks all your boxes and leaves money
in your pocket”, says Shelton.  Finding the absolute lowest airfare can be
rewarding, but there are other factors to consider, like value – the overall
mix of price, quality and convenience. Before shopping, it makes sense to
decide what’s most important. It might be a really cheap plane ticket, but do
you want to stop and change planes several times? Some airlines are more
comfortable and provide more in-flight amenities than others, while budget
carriers strip away the perks so they can charge less per seat.  Budget airlines (and the comparable basic
economy fares offered by many of the bigger airlines) typically offer bare-bone
fares with a low price tag but no perks. While that may not be for
everyone, if you can travel light, this could mean an extremely cheap flight.
That said, read the fine print prior to booking to see what’s included in the
ticket price.   Newsletters and email alerts are a great way
to stay up to date on fare sales and travel deals. Flash sales and
last-minute flight deals can provide unmatched savings, and signing up for
travel email alerts is one way to make sure you don’t miss them when they pop
up.    It’s not hard to find cheap flights when
you’re well informed and well connected, so take the time to do the research
before you book that ticket.