JOHANNESBURG – Two South Africa-born players, namely Scott Spedding and Bernard le Roux, have been included in the France squad for June’s three match Test series against the Springboks. The side, coached by Guy Noves, is likely to be captained by hooker Guilhem Guirado. Their matches are scheduled for Pretoria on June 10, Durban on June 17 and Johannesburg on June 24. Spedding was born in Krugersdorp and played Currie Cup and Super Rugby games for the Sharks and represented the South Africa U21 side. Le Roux grew up in Moreesburg and played Currie Cup rugby for both the Boland Cavaliers and the Border Bulldogs. Meanwhile, former French star Fredric Michalak will captain the French Barbarians when they visit South Africa for two matches against the SA “A” side, also during June. The visitors will face Johan Ackermann’s “A” team in Durban on June 16 and in Johannesburg on June 23. France squad: Forwards - Uini Atonio, Eddy Ben Arous, Yacouba Camara, Camille Chat, Xavier Chiocci, Loann Goujon, Kevin Gourdon, Guilhem Guirado, Arthur Iturria, Anthony Jelonch, Julien Le Devedec, Bernard Le Roux, Clermont Maynadier, Yoann Maestri, Louis Picamoles, Rabah Slimani, Romain Taofifenua, Jefferson Poirot. Backs - Henry Chavancy, Jonathan Danty, Jean Marc Doussain, Nans Ducuing, Brice Dulin, Antoine Dupont, Gael Fickou, Yoann Huget, Camille Lopez, Maxime Machenaud, Damian Penaud, Jules Plisson, Vincent Rattez, Baptiste Serin, Scott Spedding, Virimi Vakatawa French Barbarians squad: Forwards – Remi Bonfils, Judicael Cancoriet, Vincent Debaty, Antoine Erbani, Anthony Etrillard, Alexandre Flanquart, Malik Hamadache, Paul Jedrasiak, Arnaud Mela, Clement Ric, Romain Sazy, Marco Tauleigne, Robins Tchale-Watchou, Khatchik Vartanov. Backs - Pierre Aguillon, Anthony Belleau, Arthur Bonneval, Jean-Baptiste Dubie, Julien Dumora, Louis Dupichot, Lucas Dupont, Gabriel Lacroix, Yann Lesgourgues, Frederic Michalak (capt), Arnaud Mignardi, Jean-Baptiste Pejoine. Independent Media   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 