La Petite Ferme, or “small farm” in French, has one of the most outstanding, entertaining and educational wine tours which is complimentary for all guests. The tour takes you around this gorgeous 18ha wine estate that overlooks the Franschhoek valley. Couple the beautiful surrounds with their award-winning Chardonnay or Shiraz and you will feel like royalty. The friendly, hospitable staff ease you into a restful state from your first step onto the estate and one evening taking in the view is enough to set your soul at ease. I can see why the restaurant has been rated one of the best fine dining establishments in the valley. A recent refurbishment, providing a new herb garden, new landscaping and a restaurant restyle, makes it an even more attractive than ever. It is almost impossible to choose from the menu as all of the meals are prepared to perfection. The great food, wine and atmosphere make for an exceptional evening. The Verdict blend deserves a special mention. Do yourself a favour and order a bottle. After a sublime rest in a haven of a bed, coffee, a continental spread and a delicious breakfast menu awaits to coat your stomach for a day of wine tasting. Franschhoek is one of the oldest towns in South Africa, established in 1688 by French Huguenot refugees (Franschhoek meaning “French corner”). The village has retained its charm with many of its Cape Dutch style houses and the market on Saturdays is crammed with wonderful food, arts and crafts. Another must is the Wine Tram. Set aside a day to hop on and off at different estates (ensure you book a taxi as you will be feeling festive by the end of the day). With winter here, there cannot be much better things to do than sit at a cosy fireplace at La Petite Ferme, sipping hand-crafted wines. Take advantage of their discounted winter packages until the end of September. If you book for four nights (Sunday to Thursday) you will get a 25 % discount with breakfast and lunch, plus an full-day winelands tour. Check their website for other midweek and weekend specials. La Petite Ferme is running a food and wine experience on the first Thursday of every month until August, with its talented winemaker Wikus Pretorius showcasing various wines to match a three-course meal gleaned from his travel. Call 0218763016 or visit www.lapetiteferme.co.za