The Presidency said the state visit will further deepen South Africa’s economic, political, cultural and social relations with Tanzania. Zuma arrived in Tanzania late on Wednesday. "President Zuma will co-chair the launch of the South Africa-Tanzania Bi-National Commission (BNC) with President of the United Republic of Tanzania, His Excellency John Pemba Magufuli," said the Presidency in a statement. "The Agreement establishing the BNC was signed in July 2011 and will be officially launched tomorrow, 11 May 2017. The BNC is the highest mechanism regulating bilateral relations between two the countries." Zuma and his host, President Magufuli, will on Thursday address the South Africa-Tanzania Business Forum, which will be held on the sidelines of the state visit. The two Heads of State will also hold official talks on a wide range of bilateral issues that include a review of the status of the bilateral relations; adoption of strategic interventions to further strengthen the relationship to focus on mutually identified priority issues; and discuss regional and continental peace and security issues. During the visit, South Africa and Tanzania are scheduled to sign a Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the field of biodiversity conservation and management. They will also sign a Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in transport related matters. The Presidency said South Africa and Tanzania enjoy excellent bilateral relations which date back to the days of the liberation struggle and were formalised by the two Governments in 1994. Economic relations continue to grow apace and cooperation encompasses trade and investment, science and technology, agriculture, environment, energy, infrastructure development, retail, amongst others. Trade figures between the two countries in 2016 indicated that South African exports to Tanzania were valued at R6, 5 billion, whereas imports from Tanzania amounted to R3.5 billion. More than 150 South African companies are operating in Tanzania in areas such as the financial services sector, hospitality and leisure as well as ICT and electronics. Zuma is accompanied by International Relations and Cooperation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor, Trade and Industry Minister Dr Rob Davies, Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa and Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi. African News Agency