Johannesburg – EU counsellor for trade and economics Dessislava
Choumelova has expressed concern over SA’s chickens.  Choumelova was briefing the portfolio committee on trade
and industry at Parliament on Tuesday. Choumelova said there are serious concerns about South
Africa’s ability to monitor the use of prohibited medicines and growth hormones
in poultry and other animal species. On Wednesday, the South African Poultry Association
(SAPA) said South African broiler producers have long committed to provide safe
and high quality foods that promote human and animal wellbeing. “We are committed to the three pillars of sustainability
being food security, a self-sufficient society and to the balance of nature,”
the association says. It explains, producers therefore subscribe its SAPA’s
Code of Conduct. “There are no growth hormones available for use in
poultry anywhere in the world and therefore also not in South Africa. No growth
hormones are registered under any of the two main statutory bodies governing
stock remedies … for use in poultry production – neither orally, nor through
injection routes.” As a result, SAPA says, no one can use hormones in
poultry in South Africa and no one does. “The allegations by the EU seem designed to cast false
aspersions as to the practices of local producers. In any event, most of the
medicines we do use were developed in the EU or the US and are merely
registered in South Africa. What the EU uses is generally what we use.” SAPA adds advances in the growth performance of the
modern broiler chicken have been achieved through the genetic selection of
superior poultry stock coupled to advances in animal nutrition aimed at optimising
the performance of the birds. Read also: Chicken brine to stay capped at 15% There has been a 50 percent improvement in feed use
efficiency and a 400 percent increase in growth rate over the last 60 years in
broilers, it says. Bird management practices such as sanitation, lighting,
ventilation, temperature, space and water have also been aligned with modern
genetics and farming methods, and together with veterinary approved vaccines
and poultry health medication, bird welfare and growth rates are optimised without
the use of growth hormones, it asserts. “We are a better producer than most EU countries and a
cheaper producer than all of them. Perhaps that is why they wish to deflect
from the truth.” BUSINESS REPORT
ONLINE