Besides being a beach holiday destination, filled with snorkelling, diving and all things water sport, Mozambique  also has many other attractions bound to make your holiday a great one. Clinton Moodley looks at the 5 most talked about places to visit. Maputo Central Market Address: Av. 25 de Setembro, Maputo, Mozambique Contact: +258 84 670 1922 A visit to Mozambique is not complete without visiting this iconic market. Set in the town of Maputo, this colourful market has everything from fresh fruits and vegetables to crafts to household items. The people are friendly  and the great items you will pick up are a bonus. It is the perfect place to fetch souvenirs for loved ones back home. Praça da Independência (Independence Square)  The site is a focal point of Maputo. It was originally built by the Portuguese as Praça Mouzinho de Albuquerque (Mouzinho de Albuquerque Square) and was dominated by a statue of Mouzinho de Albuquerque, the former governor-general of Portuguese Mozambique. However, after the independence of Mozambique in 1975 the square was renamed Praça da Independência, and the statue of Mouzinho de Albuquerque was removed to Fortaleza de Nossa Senhora da Conceição and replaced by a statue of Samora Machel, the first president of Mozambique. Visit here for a truly authentic lesson of the city. Gorongosa National Park  Address: EN 1, Gorongosa, Sofala, Mozambique Contact: +258 82 308 2252 The Sunday Times called Gorongosa National Park “Mozambique’s greatest wonder — Africa in miniature, with an ecosystem that looks like the divine prototype." It is not hard to see why the park has captured the hearts of many. Home to lions, elephants, crocodiles and antelope, the park is situated at the very end of Africa’s Great Rift Valley. Make sure you see Mount Gorongosa. Fort of São Sebastião  One of the oldest forts in Africa, the Fort of São Sebastião is one not to be missed.  Construction by the Portuguese started in 1558. It took about fifty years to complete. Enjoy sea views or fun filled activities with the family nearby. Tunduru Botanical Gardens  Address: Rua Henrique de Sousa, Maputo, Mozambique Want to get some Instagram worthy photographs besides having loads of pictures of the beach? Well this is the place to go. The gardens were designed in 1885 by Thomas Honney – who in his career also designed gardens for the King of Greece and the Sultan of Turkey. It is perfect for those spontaneous picnic dates or a place to enjoy the shade.