There is no doubt that Vusi Nova is reaping the rewards of his hard work. The singer has had a roller coaster of a year so far. His third album, Naninina just went platinum, three singles off the album are simultaneously on rotation on radio and it has scored him a number of nominations, the most recent being Best Afro Pop album at the South African Music Awards (Samas). “You know, it’s funny because in the beginning I was just making music, I was actually just trying to heal myself and maybe heal others who have gone through a heartbreak. Being a nominee in any category for any of the awards was not on the agenda at all, so this is amazing,” he said. The afro pop singer said the Sama nomination was especially important. Emtee's still Winning “I think that being nominated for anything is fantastic and special for any musician, but for me a Sama nomination is very special. The Samas are in a league of their own, they celebrate all aspects of music and are very inclusive, which is great. Overall, I think awards are very important in any industry. I know that a lot has been said about people buying awards, which completely defeats the purpose of them, but I do not think we need to re-look at the importance of awards because they really are important,” he said. Although Naninina has gone platinum, Nova said he did not expect it. “When I was putting this album together I was hoping and praying that people would relate to it, because it is a very personal album. It’s about a terrible breakup I went through and even about losing a parent. However, because it is so personal I was also scared, but the way in which people have embraced it really warms my heart. I am thankful that I allowed myself to be so vulnerable, not just with myself, but with my fans too. I always say that you can have the best voice ever, but if you do not evoke emotion in your music, just go home and sleep.” Born and raised in the Eastern Cape, Nova has had a number of collaborations over the years. “I have been blessed to work with people like Kelly Khumalo, Nathi and even Bricks. They have all taught me something, but I would really love to get into the studio with Ringo and R Kelly – these are the people that inspired me and my music,” Nova said. He added that he was working on new music and hinted at a collaboration with a musician from across the border. “The studio is my home, I am always in it. I am working on new music and I definitely want to release a new album, but I am in no rush. I am also working with a fellow African artist – I am not going to say who until the music is released,” he said. IOL