Suzuki is hoping to make some waves in the sub-R200 000 market with this cheeky-looking and decidedly compact crossover called the Ignis, which is now on sale in South Africa. Measuring 3700cm in length, it’s a good 150cm shorter than its Swift sibling, although its upright and cab-forward proportions do allow for reasonable cabin space and a compact but deep boot with a relatively decent capacity of 260 litres. The crossover’s boxy lines and prominent wheel arches give it a stocky appearance, while those slit-like grooves on the C-pillar add a distinctive and retro touch, harking back to the Cervo Coupé of the ‘70s. Three models are on offer, priced from R169 900, and all sporting Suzuki’s familiar 1.2-litre normally aspirated petrol engine, rated at 61kW and 113Nm. Granted that’s not a great deal, but then the Ignis does weigh a paltry 850kg. Suzuki claims a zero to 100km/h sprint time of 11.6 seconds (at the coast) and a 165km/h top end. The engine is mated to either a five-speed manual or (optional on the range-topping GLX) a five speed Automated Manual Transmission (AMT). Although all-wheel drive is available overseas, all South African models are front-wheel driven, but our models do have a bit of dirt-road-busting capability thanks to the 180mm ground clearance. Buyers can choose between GL and GLX trim grades, the former (above) kicking off the range and offering standard air conditioning, remote central locking, electric windows and mirrors, two-speaker MP3/CD audio system with USB port, dual front airbags and ABS brakes. The GLX (above) adds visual enhancements in the form of 15-inch piano-black alloy wheels, projector type LED headlights, fog lights, chrome grille accents, wheel-arch extensions and roof rails. The range-topper also adds luxury features such as automatic climate control, start button, height-adjustment for the driver’s seat, Bluetooth connectivity, four extra speakers and additional chrome finishes. A full-colour touch-screen is optional. All versions are sold with a three-year/100 000km warranty and two-year/30 000km service plan. PRICES <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->