DURBAN - IF YOUR want uniquely crafted drinks, gourmet food prepared by hands that tell a story and a day of entertainment in the hills, the inaugural Craft Fest is just the thing for you and your family. The Independent on Saturday and Shongweni Farmers and Craft Market bring you the first Craft Fest on Friday, June 16, at the market site. “What’s special about the fest is that it’s an opportunity for the whole family to come out and spend a day where they can taste unique food and drink, get busy creating craft items and just relax while listening to great music. “Visitors will be able to speak to the crafters and learn about how each item is made,” said Christine Standeaven, the owner of the Shongweni Farmers and Craft Market. Each of the crafters at the fest has been specially chosen for the event. There will be crafters who create beers, ciders, gins and wines, and there will be gourmet food stalls, with local people sharing their love for creating delicious fare. There will also be people who create their own handicrafts, many made out of recycled goods like plastic, as well as live music and a children’s entertainment area. “This fest is an experience. A person who comes here will not just be buying an item. People can ask how an item is made and learn about the people behind the product. “This is an experience that you don’t get when you go to a supermarket, for example. “We have people here who gave up their professional careers to cook food and earn an income. This is the beauty of knowing where products or services come from and how those people support their families,” said Standeaven. Some of the craft drink makers are Clarens Beer/Red Stone, the Standeaven Brewery, Toti Brewing company, the Gin Co and Eversons. Deon Delport, the editor of The Independent on Saturday, said: “The Craft Fest offers groups of friends and families a chance to enjoy a wonderful day of entertainment, listening to great music and trying different craft drinks in a stunning setting. “What better way to start a long weekend? “This festival celebrates the talents and creativity of local brew masters and musicians. KwaZulu-Natal – and elsewhere – is home to some great craft brew creators, who are always looking at new offerings in beer, but increasingly also in craft gins and sparkling wines,” he said. “The Independent on Saturday believes it is important to promote innovation and, at the same time, help our readers and followers find fun things to do with their leisure time. The Craft Fest is about having fun. Come and enjoy.”  ● Tickets are available at www.quicket.co.za Kids under 12 get in for free. Tickets for children between 12 and 17 years old cost R50. Presale tickets will be R100 and at the door they will be R120. Three lucky readers will each stand a chance to win four tickets to the Craft Fest taking place on June 16 at the Shongweni Farmers and Craft Market. To stand a chance of winning, SMS TIOSCraft to 33258 followed by your name and number, by midday on Wednesday  May 24. SMSes charged at R1.50. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be contacted by telephone. The Craft Fest will take place from 10am to 4pm. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY