Johannesburg - EFF leader Julius Malema called out against the abuse and women and children when he addressed hundreds of supporters at an Africa Day celebration in Jourbert Park in Joburg  “You must have self-respect. Women are the most peaceful and understanding people. If it was up to me, this world would be ruled by women.”  He further defended the #MenAreTrash movement and said it would continue if men didn’t change how they treated women. “If we don’t want to be called that, let’s change our behaviour, then a hashtag #SAMenAreLovers will start trending,” Malema said.  Malema also lashed out against xenophobia saying those that fuelled such attacks should not call themselves Africans if they could do not embrace fellow Africans.  He said the main enemy and threat to Africans was capitalism, and said what united the continent was the land and economic issue.  Malema was addressing hundreds of supporters at an Africa Day celebration in Jourbert Park in Joburg on Thursday.  The crowd was filled with people from various nationalities with some dressed in the EFF’s trademark red colours.  He said Africans should embrace ubuntu and not attack fellow Africans whilst calling themselves proud “Africans”.     Malema played to the gallery as he lashed out at the ANC for not servicing people and protecting “White Monopoly Capital”.  He said Africans should reclaim their resources; which include land and mineral resources.  “”How can we say that our continent is rich with mineral resources yet the people of this continent are the poorest of the poor?,” asked Malema.  He linked the importance of African unity as crucial if Africans wanted to reclaim their resources.  Malema repeated previous utterances that Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe must go, but he also commended him for his country’s policies on land.  “He (Mugabe) is right when it comes to land, but he alone cannot solve the land issue. Mozambique must join and take the land, Zambia must join and take the land. Then they (Europeans) will have nowhere to go. And then we will help them under our dictatorship,” said Malema.  He lashed out against attacks on foreign owned shops in the townships, saying the idea that they were taking away local jobs was false.  Malema also spoke out against the abuse and women and children.  “You must have self-respect. Women are the most peaceful and understanding people. If it was up to me, this world would be ruled by women.”  He further defended the #MenAreTrash movement and said it would continue if men didn’t change how they treated women.  “If we don’t want to be called that, let’s change our behaviour, then a hashtag #SAMenAreLovers will start trending,” Malema said.  @ZintleMahlati  Politics and Development Hub