Have you dreamed of having your face seen by millions of people on magazine covers, strutting your stuff on catwalks, starring in TV commercials or working with amazing brands? Then look no further: Clicks, South Africa’s leading health and beauty retailer, is searching for a fresh-faced, natural beauty to be their next Cover Model and it could be you! With less than a month left until entries close, the search is on for the 2017 Clicks Cover Model, which has become the platform to springboard the careers of South Africa’s hottest modelling talent.  Last year’s winner, Kerusha Govender, was in the Top 25 of Miss South Africa 2016 and 2015’s winner, Boipelo Mabe, was recently crowned Second Princess in Miss South Africa 2017. The 2017 Clicks Cover Model winner will adorn the cover of over 1 million Clicks Beauty Fair leaflets and the Clicks ClubCard magazine. She will also receive a full portfolio shoot and a 3-year modelling contract with top modelling agency D&A Model Management to kickstart her career; as well as a R10 000 Clicks gift card; R20 000 worth of beauty products and manicures and pedicures to the value of R3 295 from Sorbet. “Aspiring Clicks Cover Models need to have good skin, a beautiful smile and a healthy, fit body,” says Andrea Baptista, Director of D&A Model Management. “We are looking for an outgoing individual with exceptional confidence. She needs to be a great speaker and witty conversationalist, with a sparkle in her eyes.”  To enter the 2017 Clicks Cover Model Search, visit www.clicks.co.za/competitions and upload three colour photographs of yourself. Entries close 31 May 2017. Baptista advises the following tips to make your entry stand out: Make sure you are in a place with good lighting and that your photographs are not taken at an awkward angle. There should be no distractions, such as other people crowding the photo. Because we’re looking for a natural beauty, wear subtle and minimal make-up, and remember to smile.  Her final advice, “Be true to yourself and remember to have a positive attitude and remain motivated to win the top spot!” Open castings will take place during the first two weeks of June in Cape Town, Durban and Johannesburg, followed by the Top 100 and Top 10 announcements. The public will then be encouraged to vote for their favourite entrant from the Top 10 between 4 and 10 July. The winner of the 2017 Clicks Cover Model Search will be announced in July 2017.