PARIS, France – Novak Djokovic began the defence of his French Open title, and partnership with Andre Agassi, with a 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 win over Spain's Marcel Granollers on Monday. It was the perfect way to mark his 50th successive Grand Slam appearance but there is still work to do for the world number two, whose form has dropped off since he completed the career Grand Slam in Paris 12 months ago. "Andre has left already. He's waiting for me for a serious talk," joked the 30-year-old after seeing off Granollers for the fourth time. Djokovic dropped his serve four times and required nine set points to claim the second set against a player who had only won 10 games in their previous three encounters. The Serb, seeking to become the first man in the Open era to win all four majors on at least two occasions, eventually wrapped up matters on Court Philippe Chatrier after two and a half hours. "It's great to have Andre Agassi as coach and as a mentor. I will try to learn as much as I can from him," added Djokovic. Djokovic faces either compatriot Janko Tipsarevic or Portugal's Joao Sousa for a place in the last 32. Meanwhile, Rafael Nadal launched his quest for a record 10th French Open title with a 6-1, 6-4, 6-1 win over Frenchman Benoit Paire. Nadal, who was forced to withdraw before last year's third round with a wrist injury, broke Paire eight times to brush aside the world number 45 in less than two hours. "I'm very happy to be back here after what happened last year. It's great to feel the support," said the 14-time major champion. Nadal dominated the opening set, then recovered from a slight second-set wobble when he dropped serve twice in a row to surge into a round two meeting with Dutchman Robin Haase. The Spaniard, whose last Grand Slam triumph came at Roland Garros in 2014, improved his incredible French Open record to 73 wins and just two losses. Nadal lost this year's Australian Open final in a five-set epic to Roger Federer, but the 30-year-old has marked himself out as the favourite on his preferred surface. The fourth seed arrives in Paris with three clay-court titles to his name this season – winning both Monte Carlo and Barcelona for a 10th time, while securing a fifth Madrid Masters crown. AFP   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 