Kwesta, who was a notable snub at the Metro FM Awards, picked up the gongs for best male artist of the year, best rap album, highest airplay and best collaboration. Amanda Black won best newcomer, best female artist, best R&B/soul/reggae album and best album. These wins all come off the back of her impressive debut album, Amazulu. Throughout the glittering weekend, Sun City was abuzz with celebrities aplenty. Hip-hop royalty Khuli Chana, Kwesta and Stogie T (formerly known as Tumi) performed in an evening that once again highlighted the genre’s domination of the local music industry. Nasty C, who was the most nominated artist with five nominations, walked away away with Record of Year award. This is in spite of his controversial domination of the Metros and his disqualification from the category of best video due to late entry. Black Motion, who have dazzled audiences with their energetic performance, walked away with awards for best duo/group and best dance album. Other notable winners were Dr Malinga (best kwaito album), Vusi Nova (best Afro Pop album) and GoodLuck (best pop album). Nhlanhla Sibisi, CEO of RiSA, the company which organises the awards, commented earlier in the week: “It promises to be magic. It will be lit. You cannot afford to miss what the creative team has put together to show off just what South African music is all about.” The show lived up to his high expectations. An excited Sibisi said: “By all accounts this has been a successful SAMA 23. We applaud all the winners and nominees, and the music loving South Africans who have supported these awards. We are encouraged by the generosity of our sponsors and all stakeholders, media included, in this great project. South African music can only grow from here.”   Full list of winners from the main show: * Record of the year - Nasty C *  Best newcomer of the year - Amanda Black - Amazulu *  Best duo-group of the year - Black Motion - Ya Badimo *  Best female artist of the year - Amanda Black - Amazulu *  Best male artist of the year - Kwesta - Dakar II *  Best album of the year - Amanda Black - Amazulu *  Best naskandi album - Khuzani - Inyoni yomthakathi *  Classical instrumental album - Charl du Pleassis Trio - Baroqueswing Vol II *  Best Afro Pop album - Vusi Nova - Vusi Nova *  African indigenous gospel album - Living In Christ Legends - Living In Christ Legends *  Best rock album - Albert Frost - The Wakeup *  Best pop album - GoodLuck - The Nature Within *  Beste kontemporere musiek album - Joshua na die Reen - Die Wereld Binne My *  Best rap album - Kwesta - Darak II *  Best kwaito album - Dr Malinga - Goodwill *  Best dance album - Black Motion - Ya Badimo *  Best traditional faith music album - Spirit of Praise - Spirit of Praise Vol 6 *  Highest airplay of the year - Ngud - Kwesta The Sunday Independent