* This story has been updated after an earlier version included incorrect information that Primedia was taken over by TMG. Cape Town – IOL has learnt that Kfm is set for a major revamp with moves that include a new breakfast show host. Current breakfast show host Ryan O’Connor, who recently won an award for his show and has been presenting the show for almost a decade, is to be moved to a 10am to 1pm slot on weekdays. Sources have revealed that in another shock move, Kfm’s afternoon drive presenter Rob Vember will also leave the station. O’Connor will make way for Darren Simpson, aka Whackhead Simpson, to take over Kfm Breakfast from July 3. Simpson will continue to do his 94.7 drive show but will broadcast from Cape Town. The rest of his 94.7 team will be in a studio in Joburg. It is understood that members of O’Connor’s team – traffic presenter Liezel van der Westhuizen and surf reporter Deon Bing – have been also been moved and are in discussions about other opportunities. Sechaba G will move into Carl Wastie’s 1pm to 4pm slot. Wastie, who has blazed a trail with his show, has been promoted to Vember’s afternoon drive from 4pm to 7pm and will also take over the Saturday chart show, which will be a regional show. Vember’s colleagues on his afternoon show, sports anchor Jeremy Harris and traffic reporter Jessica Da Silva, will be moved from their roles as well. Harris, a veteran at the station is said to be staying in the business while all ties with Da Silva will be severed. The announcement is expected to be made at a staff meeting on Friday. The moves come after news that station manager Colleen Louw, who resigned a few months ago, is leaving shortly after her notice period ends. Kfm and sister stations CapeTalk, 702 and 94.7 are part of the Primedia stable. There were a number of takeover bids recently - including an attempt by the Times Media Group that failed.  However, a number of top executives resigned, including longstanding CEO Terry Volkwyn. The moves are being implemented by new Primedia CEO Omar Essack. IOL