Believers in commemorations and celebrations such as Africa Day see it as an opportunity to reflect on the significance of whatever is being celebrated, reorient strategies and plans and relaunch. Naysayers, on the other hand, will ask what difference a day makes or what relevance it carries. If Africa is the poorest continent with the richest resources, what is there to celebrate, they ask. When so many leaders are corrupt, denying their compatriots of basic amenities, opportunities and human dignity, is Africa Day even relevant anymore? South Africa, unlike many African countries in which May 25 is a public holiday, does not make a song and dance about it. The country was not invited to the First Congress of Independent African States in Accra, Ghana, on April 15, 1958. Then Prime Minister of Ghana Dr Kwame Nkrumah and his peers from the handful of independent African states had no time or inclination to fraternise with apartheid South Africa of JG Strijdom. Back then, only Ghana, Sudan, Cameroon and Liberia were independent in Sub-Saharan Africa. It was fitting, therefore, that the congress proclaimed the importance of an African Freedom Day, to “mark each year the onward progress of the liberation movement, and to symbolise the determination of the people of Africa to free themselves from foreign domination and exploitation”. By the time the OAU was founded in Ethiopia on May 25, 1963, more than 65% of African countries were independent. Few crucial countries were not. They included Angola, Mozambique, Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) and South Africa. When the founding charter of the OAU was signed on May 26, although Nkrumah’s quest for a more radical version of the bloc had been defeated, African Freedom Day became Africa Liberation Day. The leaders were clear about their mission: it would not mean a thing if it did not lead to the decolonisation of these countries. To this end, they would support liberation movements and not abet counter-insurgency measures to be directed from their countries. Of course, apartheid South Africa would pummel the likes of Lesotho and Mozambique on to the back foot with devilish strikes against civilian targets at times. It is critical, therefore, that we South Africans recommit ourselves to our pan-African obligations and contribute towards rebuilding our continent. Our freedom remained the centrepiece of the OAU’s existence until we were free in 1994. This is about more than merely allowing fellow Africans into South Africa; that is not even the key priority.  The real African storyboard should be working to enable Africa to reclaim its place on the global economic and cultural stage through good governance, regional economic integration, among others, in order to eradicate poverty, ignorance and disease. We are already a part of Africa’s institutions and our contribution to peacekeeping, development finance and financial services has been commendable. We still come up short, though, when viewing the continent as a viable investment and business-growth territory. It is still an exception, not the rule, for South African companies and tourists to make the rest of Africa their first stop - before Australia, Europe, the US and so on. Celebrating Africa Day will not - in and of itself - change that; but it will say: We are actively part of greater Africa. Does celebrating Valentine’s Day or Christmas make better lovers, more pious Christians? No, but the efforts and solidarity never go unrecognised. Our integration with greater Africa - including better recognition and commemoration of Africa Day - will improve our African character, teach our children about their African-ness and open the continent better to us.  *  Kgomoeswana is the author of Africa is Open for Business. He is also a media commentator and public speaker on African business affairs and a weekly columnist for African Independent - Twitter Handle: @VictorAfrica ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent