When the results were not forthcoming, the Absa Premiership rookies brought in Jacob Sakala to take over the reins and demoted Kgoloko Thobejane at the beginning of this year. Sakala, who also lasted for two matches, a defeat to Chippa United and draw in a home clash Platinum Stars, was also shown the door after he refused to sign an agreement with the club which stated that he must win his next four league matches during his stint there. That decision later on led to Thobejane being reappointed as head coach. But Thobejane is now not solely in charge, sharing the coaching role as he does with Milton Dlamini. This coaching instability, Shaku believes, is what contributed to Baroka’s bad run of results which sees them propping up the 16-team table with a mere two matches to go. “It has not been easy on any of us (as players),” Shaku said. “We had a difficult time adjusting to the different kinds of coaching methods, as the club changed coaches after every single month, with every coach trying to implement their ideas on us. We struggled pretty badly with that.I believe that’s what got us into this situation that we are in right now.” The situation that Baroka are currently in, 24 points from 28 matches, sees them now having to fight for maximum points in their remaining matches with the hope of surviving the chop. The battle starts on Wednesday night when fellow rookies and 14th-placed Highlands Park come to visit at the Peter Mokaba Stadium (Kick-off 7.30pm). Unlike Baroka who lost 3-2 at Golden Arrows at the weekend. Highlands are on a high of sorts following their 1-0 defeat of Chippa United. Highlands are not out of the relegation quagmire yet, leading Baroka by a mere point and will look to secure safety with another victory. Shaku admitted that his side would need to up their game, especially in the defence if they are going to see themselves coming out with a win in this matchup. “Our defence has been really bad,” Shaku said. “I’ll be the first to admit to that. You can see that our strikers are really trying up front but our rearguard has been really poor. We’ve been conceding so many goals and that needs to change if we are to survive the chop by the end of this season. It’s not going to be easy though. "These two sides (Highlands and Ajax Cape Town) are also fighting for points as well. It’s going to be a fight but we’ll have to make sure that we fight to come out with a win both encounters. I’m pretty confident that we will” In their attempt to gain maximum homeground advantage, Bakgaga will be giving away 10 000 free tickets for the match to their faithful fans who’ve supported them through the debut season in the Premiership.  @Mohau_Ra  @extrastrongsa The Star  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 