"We must work together to establish linkages that will allow for effective and efficient intra-Africa trade... In fact, our visit to Tanzania seeks to actualise the same sentiments that the two countries should work together more than ever," Zuma said in a speech for delivery at the state banquet hosted by Tanzanian President John Magufuli during a visit to Dar es Salaam. "Unity is the key to prosperity for the African continent and for all our peoples." Zuma said that as the countries worked together to fight apartheid, South African and Tanzania should use their natural resources strategically to combat unemployment, poverty and inequality. "To date, we have sixteen agreements and memoranda of understanding between our two sister Republics, including the two signed this morning. We need to prioritise the implementation of all these agreements. We had a successful engagement with business from both countries," he said. "We have agreed to invest in energy and infrastructure amongst other priorities, to address the economic development challenges and remove trade barriers in order to facilitate intra-Africa trade and regional integration. Tanzania is geo-politically and strategically positioned. When it comes to issues of peace and stability, Tanzania remains a strategic and dependable partner." In his toast, Zuma spoke on various issues including South Africa's liberation and how the African National Congress (ANC) received solidarity from neighbouring countries. Zuma saluted and honoured the "selfless contribution and support" of the people of Tanzania to South Africa's liberation struggle. "Historic decisions that changed the course of history in our country were taken here in Tanzania. This country afforded our movement the ANC and leadership the space to develop the watershed change in strategy, a gesture that would ultimately result in the eventual overthrow of one of the most inhumane and oppressive systems ever adopted by a regime," Zuma said. "We will also never forget Tanzania’s contribution to the education of our people. Tanzania heeded our clarion call, when in the aftermath of the 1976 student uprising, our leader Oliver Reginald Tambo approached the Tanzanian government for the allocation of a piece of land to establish a school for South African’s banished from their country to pursue an education worthy of our citizens." Zuma was in the country on an official state visit. African News Agency