CAPE TOWN – Bidvest Wits are the 2016-2017 PSL champions – fittingly, it was Daine Klate who netted a wonderful second goal to hand the Clever Boys a 2-0 win over Polokwane City on Wednesday night and the prestigious league title. Mamelodi Sundowns and Maritzburg United played to a 2-2 draw, and the log standings see Wits in an unassailable position with one game to go on 60 points, followed by Sundowns with 56 and Cape Town City on 55. In other results on Wednesday night, City beat Golden Arrows 1-0, Ajax Cape Town and Orlando Pirates played to a 0-0 draw, Platinum Stars defeated Kaizer Chiefs 2-0, Baroka FC and Highlands Park 0-0, Bloemfontein Celtic and Free State Stars 0-0 and Chippa United hammered SuperSport United 3-0. At Athlone Stadium, Cape Town City were able to welcome back winger Aubrey Ngoma and central defender Robyn Johannes from suspension, but they struggled to get going in the early stages. Arrows made life difficult for the Capetonians, with Kudakwashe Mahachi, Siphelele Magubane and Knox Mutizwa all squandering opportunities for the Durban team. It took a while for City to find their feet and when they eventually did, Lehlohlonolo Majoro and Lebogang Manyama failed to make the most of their chances. The Capetonians were awarded a penalty in the 83rd minute after Manyama was fouled.   The City captain took the responsibility for the spot-kick, but his effort hit the woodwork. Just before the end, though, City stole all three points when Ngoma’s cross was deflected into his own net by Musa Bilankulu. The win secures the Cape side’s third-placed finish – but, who knows, if Sundowns slip up in the last game, City could even end second. There’s still something to play for in that last match. At the Orlando Stadium, Ajax continued their current form by giving a good account of themselves against Pirates. With Mark Mayambela suspended, the Cape side’s coach Stanley Menzo brought in Zambian Rodrick Kabwe, who gave the Soweto side some anxious moments with his enterprise down the flanks. Pirates, in turn, picked both former Ajax players for the game – Abbubaker Mobara and Riyaad Norodien – hoping the duo would be able to do the business against their former team. Neither team could find a way to score, though, and goalless was a fair result. At the basement, with one game remaining, it’s still as tight as ever. Baroka are last with 26 points, but just above are Highlands, also 26, Free State Stars 27, Chippa 27 and Bloem Celtic 28 points. @Reinerss11 Independent Media