Can you believe I had never been to the Wild Coast even though live in Durban and its not that far. I have always known the Wild Coast as  a place where many go for family  breaks away  from the busy city life. I spent  two days at the 4 star wild Coast Hotel last weekend to celebrate their inaugural Indwangu Fashion Extravaganza. The event is used to raise funds for  sanitary pads for young impoverished girls. The two hour drive along the Southern areas of KwaZulu-Natal was relaxed despite it being peak traffic hours. I arrived late on a Friday night.  The atmosphere was buzzing with families checking and others making their way to the casino. My bags were taken to a luxury twin room overlooking the garden. Chocolates and wine awaited my arrival.  Wild Coast has many offerings for young and old. There’s a kiddies spa where the little ones can enjoy massages, pedicures or get their nails done. Parent-child packages can be arranged. According to Mawande Genu, the hotel’s PRO, this is quite popular especially for day visitors. Then there is the water themed park with some exhilarating rides on the line up. If rides are not your passion, just laze around the number of poolside chairs available.  There is also a pool in the hotel that overlooks the ocean. Here one can enjoy poolside massages( at your own cost) or sip on some cocktails. There is also a designated  entrance to the beach if you feel like hitting the waves. For golfers, the greens  will keep you occupied for hours.  I will be the first to admit that the Wild Coast Sun Hotel and Casino could do with some needed renovations. Not to their rooms, but to improving certain existing facilities or adding just a bit more for guests to give them the ultimate experience.  While I enjoyed many great amenities, there were a few that I was not very pleased with, especially the food. When families come to visit places such as this they expect to have more than just fast foods on offer. I was disappointed that fast food places were king here. Chico’s restaurant offers buffet, but should consider adding a menu with other offerings for lunch and dinner. Their breakfast buffet was great though.  Another concern of mine is the noise levels in the hallways. Young children run and scream at night  making it hard for anyone to get any shut eye. My sentiments are shared by other guest who were also not impressed. On the first night, I barely slept a wink as there were a group of teenagers talking in front of my room. While it is not the hotel’s fault, I believe guests should be more accommodating.  clinton.moodley@inl.co.za 