Land Rover’s all-new and far more sophisticated Discovery is set to go on sale in South Africa in July, with prices ranging between R989 918 and R1 473 802. It’s a radical departure from its boxy predecessor, boasting a far more streamlined design and a brand new lightweight aluminium monocoque architecture that contributes to a massive 480kg weight saving over the previous steel framed model. Yet although it appears to have gone soft to keep with the times, the new seven-seater is available with a glut of bundu-bashing technologies. All-wheel-drive is standard, but an extra R26 800 will get you the Capability Plus Pack, which comes with an active locking rear diff as well as the Terrarin Response 2 system that includes a two-speed transfer box with low range gearing as well as various terrain settings. Furthermore, the Discovery has a ground clearance of 283mm and respective approach and departure angles of up to 34 degrees and 30 degrees, with a breakover angle of 27.5 degrees. Maximum wading depth is 900mm. The new Disco is available with two 3-litre V6 engines, a petrol and a diesel, both allowing a braked towing capacity of 3500kg. The turbocharged TD6 diesel is good for 190kW and 600Nm while the SD6 supercharged petrol is rated at 250kW and 450Nm. Walk through the range Both motors are available in S, SE, HSE, HSE Luxury and First Edition trim grades. The S keeps things fairly basic with cloth seats and manual air conditioning, but still gets a six-speaker audio system linked to a 20cm touch-screen, as well as cruise control, push-button starting, multi-function steering wheel and 19-inch alloys. The SE adds, among other things, leather seats, automatic climate control, satnav, rear parking aid and an upgraded 10-speaker, 250 watt sound system. HSE ups the ante with a 25cm touch-screen, 350 watt Meridian sound system, reverse camera, powered tailgate and 20-inch alloys. The HSE Luxury gets Windsor leather, 750 watt Meridian sound with 14 speakers, three-zone climate control, surround camera system and configurable ambient lighting. Cream of the crop, and the most expensive, is the First Edition, which stands apart with black 21-inch alloys, Narvik black grille, gesture-control for the tailgate, Intelligent Seat Fold (remote and electronic) and the Activity Key for water-based activities. The Terrain Response 2 system, optional on the rest of the range, is standard on this edition. LAND ROVER DISCOVERY: PRICES Petrol <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Diesel <!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> IOL Motoring  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter  