Though it has metamorphosised from an overtly agricultural utility implement to a leather-lined luxury offroader over its 38-year existence, Merc’s G-Class still holds a firm spot in the German marque’s model lineup. But as with any vehicle that lives such unusually long lifespans, it’s important to keep the offering fresh with occasional package updates and special editions. Available for order in Europe now, and under consideration for South African consumption next year, are two new G-Class Editions called Designo Manufaktur and Exclusive. The Designo Manufaktur nameplate has technically been on sale since 2015, but the latest version (above, left) ups the individuality ante with an assortment of unique add-ons in a distinctly black theme. This package is limited to G350d and G500 models exclusively, and includes special 19-inch AMG rims, side body strips, a triple-louvre front grille, spare wheel cover and mirror housings all painted black. Three optional paint finishes include magma red, mystic white and obsidian black. Inside, the Designo Manufaktur treatment means black nappa leather upholstery with red top stitching, a matching AMG Performance steering wheel, red seat belts, and dash inlays in shiny piano black lacquer. Even the roof grab handles and dash topper are wrapped in black leather, and to top it all off is a "designo manufaktur Edition" badge in the centre console. Mercedes has set aside its high-performance G63 and G65 (yes, you can get a twin-turbo V12 in this slab-sided high-rider) AMG derivatives only for Exclusive Edition enhancements (above), and with these you’ll get stainless steel underbody protection plates, dark aluminium look door strips, colour-coded spare wheel covers and massive 21-inch alloys with faux carbonfibre inserts. Exclusives are available in an array of colours, but a special matt Monza Grey is possible in this special edition only. Buyers get a choice of six two-tone interior colours, or optional nappa seats with carbon-look leather side bolsters. Either version comes with diamond stitched door panels and seat centre sections, while dash trims can be had in a choice of carbonfibre or piano black. Mercedes-Benz SA can’t yet confirm the two special edition G-Classes for our market, but plans to make an announcement in coming weeks. IOL Motoring  Like us on 

Facebook   Follow us on 

Twitter  