JOHANNESBURG – Quinton de Kock’s growing status on the global stage, underlined by his consistency across formats and performances under pressure last summer, saw him recognised as the nation’s best cricketer for last summer at Cricket South Africa’s prestigious Awards ceremony on Saturday night. The 24-year-old was one of the central components in what was an outstanding season for the Proteas, in which they claimed three ODI series wins and three Tests series wins, the highlight of which was a third consecutive triumph in Australia. De Kock shone brightly throughout the season. He began with an innings of 178 in the first ODI against Australia at Centurion – then the second highest score by a South African in ODIs, but subsequently overtaken by Faf du Plessis – and continued to dominate at the top of the order, scoring six half-centuries and two hundreds. He also notched up two tons in the Test arena, the first of those, also against the Australians, instrumental in securing that series win Down Under. South Africa were 132/5 and in danger of not taking advantage of bowling out the home team for just 85 when De Kock joined Temba Bavuma at the crease in Hobart. Together the two added 144, with Bavuma scoring 74 and De Kock 109. The 241-run lead they helped build proved insurmountable for the Australians, with South Africa winning by an innings and 80 runs.  Although he scored another century against Sri Lanka in the New Year’s Test, his next most valuable Test contribution was the innings of 91 against New Zealand in Wellington, where again in partnership with Bavuma, he helped add 160 for the seventh wicket to set up another Test and ultimately series win. His batting aside, De Kock has shown great improvement with his wicket-keeping, taking some stunning catches, while his increased confidence overall has made him an invaluable part of the on-field leadership group. All in all De Kock emerged victorious in five categories on Saturday night; in addition to the main award, he claimed Test, ODI, the Players’ Player and the Fans favourite awards. Only Kagiso Rabada, who won six trophies last year, has won more.  This year Rabada had to make do with just one title, the Delivery of the Season, for the ball which swung back at high speed to knock out Usman Khawaja’s off-stump in the Perth Test last November. In that same match, Bavuma’s remarkable run out of Dave Warner saw him pick up the Excellence Award for the moment of the season. Suné Luus, the 21-year-old leg-spinner, was named Women’s Player of the Year following a stellar season in which she claimed 31 wickets in 21 ODIs, and was instrumental in the South African team qualifying for the Women’s World Cup. Her teammate Lizelle Lee claimed the Women’s Players Player crown.  Predictably, the Titans dominated on the domestic front by claiming four awards – Farhaan Behardien as T20 Challenge Player of the Year, Henry Davids for the One-Day Cup and Aiden Markram Domestic Newcomer of the Year. Mark Boucher, in his first season as a professional coach, was named Coach of the Year, while Duanne Olivier of the Knights claimed the prize for the best Four-Day player following a season in which his team claimed the Sunfoil Series title, with the fast bowler finishing as that competition’s leading wicket-taker with 52. @shockerhess Independent Media Professional Awards: National SA Cricketer of the Year: Quinton de Kock Test Cricketer of the Year: Quinton de Kock ODI Cricketer of the Year: Quinton de Kock T20 International Cricketer of the Year: Imran Tahir SA Players’ Player of the Year: Quinton de Kock SA Fans’ Player of the Year: Quinton de Kock Award of Excellence: Temba Bavuma Delivery of the Year: Kagiso Rabada International Newcomer of the Year: Keshav Maharaj Women’s Cricketer of the Year: Suné Luus Women’s Players Player of the Year: Lizelle Lee Women’s Newcomer of the Year: Laura Wolvaardt   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 