Manchester, England - Police scrambled to
close down a network around the Manchester suicide bomber with
arrests in Britain and Tripoli on Wednesday, as details about
the investigation were leaked to U.S. media, infuriating
authorities who fear a second attack is imminent. British-born Salman Abedi, 22, who was known to security
services, killed 22 people at a concert venue packed with
children on Monday. Authorities believe he had help in building the bomb, which
photographs published by the New York Times showed was
sophisticated and powerful, and that his accomplices could be
ready to strike again. Manchester police arrested five men and one woman on
Wednesday, bringing the total held for questioning to seven, and
searched multiple addresses in northern and central England. Explosives were found at one site, the Independent reported,
citing security service sources. A source said British investigators were hunting for anyone
who may have helped build the suicide bomb. "I think it's very clear that this is a network that we are
investigating," police chief Ian Hopkins said outside Manchester
police headquarters. "And as I've said, it continues at a pace. There's extensive
investigations going on and activity taking place across Greater
Manchester as we speak." Abedi, who was born in Manchester in 1994 to Libyan parents,
blew himself up on Monday night at the Manchester Arena indoor
venue at the end of a concert by US pop singer Ariana Grande
attended by thousands of children and teenagers. Police in Tripoli on Wednesday arrested Abedi's younger
brother and his father, who said he did not expect the attack. "I spoke to [Salman Abedi] about five days ago ... there was
nothing wrong, everything was normal," Ramadan Abedi told
Reuters, moments before he was arrested. A spokesman for the local counter-terrorism force said his
brother Hashem Abedi was arrested on suspicion of links with
Islamic State and was suspected of planning to carry out an
attack in the Libyan capital. The first arrest made in Britain on Tuesday was reported by
British and US media to be Abedi's older brother. Earlier, interior minister Amber Rudd said the bomber had
recently returned from Libya. Her French counterpart Gerard
Collomb said he had links with Islamic State and had probably
visited Syria as well.  Authorities in Britain have become increasingly angered by
US leaks from the investigation, including the bomber's name
on Tuesday and the photos of blood-stained fragments from the
bomb on Wednesday. British police chiefs said the breaches of trust between
security service partners were undermining their efforts. Rudd had earlier scolded US officials for leaking details. "The British police have been very clear that they want to
control the flow of information in order to protect operational
integrity, the element of surprise, so it is irritating if it
gets released from other sources, and I have been very clear
with our friends that should not happen again," she said. But, hours after the warning, the New York Times published
the detailed photographs. A government source told the Guardian newspaper, "Protests
have been lodged at every relevant level between the British
authorities and our US counterparts." British Prime Minster Theresa May will meet US President
Donald Trump at a NATO summit in Brussels on Thursday, but
officials said she would cut short the second leg of her trip to
the G7 summit in Italy. The Manchester bombing has raised concern across Europe.
Cities including Paris, Nice, Brussels, St. Petersburg, Berlin
and London have suffered militant attacks in the last two years.  The 22 victims in Manchester included an eight-year-old
girl, several teenage girls, a 28-year-old man and a Polish
couple who had come to collect their daughters. Britain's official terror threat level was raised to
"critical", the highest level, late on Tuesday, meaning an
attack was expected imminently. But with just over two weeks to go until a national
election, May's Conservatives and political parties said they
would resume campaigning in the coming days. The Manchester bombing was the deadliest attack in Britain
since July 2005, when four British Muslim suicide bombers killed
52 people in coordinated attacks on London's transport network. Rudd said up to 3,800 soldiers could be deployed on
Britain's streets, taking on guard duties to free up police to
focus on patrols and investigation. An initial deployment of 984
had been ordered, first in London and then elsewhere. Soldiers were seen at the Houses of Parliament, May's
Downing Street residence and at the London police headquarters
at New Scotland Yard. The Changing of the Guard ceremony at Buckingham Palace, a
draw for tourists, was cancelled because it requires support
from police officers, which authorities decided was not a good
use of resources given the threat level. A source close to the bombing investigation told Reuters
that the focus was on whether Abedi had received help in putting
together the bomb and on where it had been done. The bomb used in the attack appeared to contain carefully
packed shrapnel and have a powerful, high velocity charge,
according to leaked photographs from the investigation published
by the New York Times. The BBC reported that security services thought the bomb was
too sophisticated for Abedi to have built by himself. Police arrested three people in South Manchester, one woman
in North Manchester, a man in the nearby town of Wigan, and
another man in the central English town of Nuneaton. Ariana Grande's representative said on Wednesday she was
suspending her tour to assess the situation and to "pay our
proper respects to those lost". The US singer had been
scheduled to perform two shows at London's O2 arena this week. Chelsea soccer club said it had cancelled a victory parade
that had been set to take place on Sunday to celebrate its
Premier League title. Several high-profile sporting events are coming up in
Britain, including the soccer FA Cup final at London's Wembley
Stadium and the English rugby club competition final at
Twickenham on Saturday and the UEFA Champions League final at
Cardiff's Millennium Stadium on June 3. Britain also has a national election scheduled for June 8.
All campaigning was suspended after the attack, although major
parties said they would resume some activities on Thursday and
national-level campaigning on Friday. The government said a minute's silence would be held at all
official buildings at 1000 GMT on Thursday. Greater Manchester Police said they were now confident they
knew the identity of all the people who lost their lives and had
made contact with all the families. They said they would
formally name the victims after forensic post-mortems, which
would take four or five days. The bombing also left 64 people wounded, of whom 20 were
receiving critical care for highly traumatic injuries to major
organs and to limbs, a health official said. France, which has repeatedly been hit by devastating
militant attacks since 2015, extended emergency powers. Reuters