Yield: 4 servings Ingredients For the chicken: 6 garlic cloves, finely grated or minced 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1 tablespoon aji amarillo paste or another chili paste such as sriracha or sambal 1 tablespoon lime juice 1 teaspoon aji panca paste or 1 teaspoon chili powder 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 1 teaspoon ground cumin 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt 1 ( 1 and a half to 2kg ) chicken, halved or 1.8 kg bone-in, skin-on chicken parts Extra-virgin olive oil, as needed For the sauce: 1 cup cilantro leaves and tender stems 3 to 4 jalapeños, seeded and diced 1/4 cup/1 ounce crumbled feta cheese 1 garlic clove, chopped 1 1/2 tablespoons lime juice, more to taste 2 teaspoons chopped fresh oregano or basil 3/4 teaspoon fine sea salt, more to taste 1/2 teaspoon Dijon mustard 1/2 tablespoon aji amarillo or other chili paste 1/2 teaspoon honey 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil Lime wedges, for garnish Method For the marinade: In a large bowl, whisk together garlic, soy sauce, aji amarillo paste, lime juice, aji panca paste, mustard, cumin, pepper and salt. Add chicken halves, turning to coat them all over with marinade. Cover and refrigerate at least 2 hours and up to 12 hours. Heat the oven to 450 degrees. Remove chicken from marinade and pat dry with paper towels. Arrange skin-side up on a rimmed baking sheet and drizzle with oil. Roast until skin is golden and chicken is cooked through, 35 to 45 minutes (if using chicken parts, remove the breasts after 25 to 35 minutes). Remove from oven and let sit, loosely covered with foil, for 10 minutes before serving. While chicken is roasting, make the sauce. In a blender, blend cilantro, jalapeños, feta, garlic, lime juice, oregano, salt, mustard, aji amarillo paste, honey, and cumin until smooth. With the motor running, slowly drizzle in oil until mixture is emulsified. Taste and adjust the seasonings with salt or lime juice or both. Carve the chicken and serve with the sauce and lime wedges on the side.