Earlier this year, the National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) issued a call for local film-makers to submit their entries for consideration as SA’s foreign language film entry at the 2018 Oscars, by no later than September 18. Speaking to the Weekend Argus this week, Peter Kwele, NFVF head of marketing and communications, said the entry process was stringent. The Oscars committee first sends them an official letter, following which they select a panel of judges from various spheres of the industry, and they then send the list back for approval. “Once the judges have been approved, we issue an open call to the industry to submit their films - as long as they meet certain criteria, such as they should be at least 70% in a language other than English, and should have screened for at least seven days,” Kwele said. The number of films submitted each year keeps increasing, and this time was no different. These films spanned a variety of themes, although several of them were highly political and controversial in nature. “One of the most unique things about this year’s entries was that there were a lot of topical films and they were all in indigenous languages,” Kwele said. There were several strong contenders this year, all vying for the Best Foreign Language Film Award, including revered playwright Mbongeni Ngema’s directorial debut in the film Asinamali. The narrative follows a group of prisoners in the 80s as they think back on their pasts and the events leading to their arrests. The hardship of prison life is told through the experiences of the inmates, whose lives are made even more difficult by sadistic prison warder Sergeant Mgwaqaza, played by Boitumelo Chuck Shisana. At the same time, the prison authorities are under pressure to accommodate Comrade Washington (portrayed by Ngema), an exiled MK soldier working for Amnesty International, who is running drama workshops with the inmates at the Durban Central Prison. In an interview with the Weekend Argus, Ngema said the film creates a world and a passion that resonates with many people across the world. “The theme is how music, theatre and dance can free the minds of oppressed people, including prisoners. I have always been passionate about the power of the arts to transform. It represents the drama of South Africa in a way that can appeal to mass audiences over here and globally,” Ngema said. Nigerian film director and actor Akin Omotoso’s award-winning feature film Vaya is also being considered. The film follows the lives of three strangers travelling by train to Johannesburg, each for personal reasons. Their lives intersect and one moment changes everything. Another prominent film, Five Fingers for Marseilles, directed by Michael Matthews, tells the story of how, 20 years ago, the young Five Fingers fought for the rural town of Marseilles in the Eastern Cape, against brutal police oppression. This film was awarded Best South African Film in Development at the Durban Film Mart’s finance forum in 2013. In a press release, producer Asger Hussain said though it is a deeply local film, the global attention for Five Fingers for Marseilles was due to a universal story executed at the highest levels. “A daring narrative like this is a rare combination of film-makers, cast and crew coming together, working under gruelling conditions to bring to life a singular vision. "We hope this film will serve as future inspiration for what’s achievable in independent filmmaking,” Hussain said. Possibly the most controversial movie of all the entries this year is John Trengove’s Inxeba (The Wound). Due to the sensitive nature of the movie and its storyline, lead actor Nakhane Toure received death threats for being a part of this film. Producer Cait Pansegrouw said that several members of her team had also received threats. “There has been a lot negativity surrounding this film, and these have mostly come from people who have not watched the film. However, the support we have received on social media is overwhelming,” Pansegrouw said. The film explores traditional notions associated with masculinity, circumcision and the clash between age-old rituals and modernity in Xhosa culture. Touré plays the role of Xolani, a factory worker who joins the men of his community in the mountains of the Eastern Cape to initiate a group of teenage boys into manhood. But as a secret resurfaces, Xolani must confront questions pertaining to his identity. Apart from four trained actors, all the others were amateurs and students or people from the streets. The entire casting process took two years. Special attention was paid to this so that each person could bring their own personal experiences to it. Owing to the fact that the director is a white male, the film has been subjected to a lot of sensationalism. The NFVF will reveal the name of the winning film soon.