Most people who read this will probably laugh at the headline. “Why would I be ridiculous enough to take a holiday with my parents?, you may be thinking to yourself. But going on holiday with your parents can actually be beneficial to you in the long haul. Many 20-somethings would cringe at the thought of spending a few days with parents and would rather enjoy a wild, carefree weekend with friends. The truth is, even though you won’t like to admit it, there are adults who go on holiday with their parents and love it. I recently read how Tyson Jopson from Getaway magazine went on a road trip with his mother to Margate in KwaZulu-Natal. The trip helped rekindle all the memories he had of roadtrips with his parents a child. Another friend of mine recently went on one with his parents, and he loved it. He said the experience gave him time to find out more about his folks than before.  With the busy lives most of us live, it is never easy to connect with our parents as much as we like. Therefore, planning a vacation, even if it means that you have to foot the bill, is a way to reconnect.  While you probably meet at family braais and weddings, going on a holiday with them is quite different. You are in a new place, ready to explore and make memories that you will remember forever. Here are some tips on how to make a holiday with your parents memorable: Talk about the location you are visiting. It's bound to get everyone excited and the conversation rolling: Ask the folks what they would like to do: Trips like this require sacrifices so you may have to skip those late night dancing for camping stories. Make sure there are sit down dinners during the holiday: Nothing starts conversation more than good food. Take the time to talk about life, your aspirations and try to ask questions about your parents. Do not be afraid to do something adventurous: Show a side of your world your parents may not get to see. Besides no one wants to stay at the hotel during the whole trip Have fun: The whole idea of a trip like this is to have fun and let loose.