LONDON – We look back at five memorable Liverpool v Manchester United league matches ahead of the 227th clash between the north-west rivals at Anfield on Saturday (Premier League unless stated). Liverpool 3 Manchester United 3 – January 1994 English football’s powerbase had shifted firmly in United’s favour by the time the two sides met at Anfield in January with Alex Ferguson’s side entering their pomp, and Liverpool about to part company with manager Graeme Souness. Things looked bleak for the hosts when United raced into a 3-0 lead inside 24 minutes with Steve Bruce, Ryan Giggs and Dennis Irwin all scoring, but two goals before halftime by Nigel Clough brought Liverpool back into the match. A stunning comeback was completed when burly defender Neil Ruddock rose at the far post to power a header past Peter Schmeichel with 11 minutes remaining. Liverpool 2 Manchester United 2 – May 1999 Another fightback by Liverpool was capped by Paul Ince, formerly of United, scoring an 89th-minute equaliser. United, who eventually prevailed in a tight title race with Arsenal, were cruising after an hour thanks to Dwight Yorke’s header and a Dennis Irwin penalty. Liverpool got a lifeline when referee David Elleray awarded them a 69th-minute penalty converted by Jamie Redknapp, shortly before Irwin was sent off for a second booking when he kicked the ball away. Ince pounced for the equaliser after the ball ran loose in the area from Karl-Heinz Riedle’s chance, sparking wild celebrations in the Kop. Liverpool 2 Manchester United 3 – September 1999 Another match in which United took a two-goal lead only to be pegged back, although this time they did take three points from a game in which Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher had the misfortune to score two own goals. Carragher diverted in a Ryan Giggs cross to put United ahead before Andy Cole headed in David Beckham’s free kick. Sami Hyypia pulled a goal back for Liverpool, but Carragher bundled in another own goal to restore United’s two-goal lead. Patrik Berger gave Liverpool renewed belief, but United held on despite having Cole sent off.  Liverpool 3 Manchester United 1 – March 2011 Dutchman Dirk Kuyt became the first Liverpool player to score a hat-trick in the fixture for 21 years as the hosts put a dent in United’s title charge. The newly-signed Luis Suarez was inspirational for Liverpool, setting up Kuyt’s opener after a superb dribble, and then delivering a cross from which Kuyt added his second. Kuyt completed his hat-trick when keeper Edwin van der Sar failed to hold Suarez’s free kick. Javier Hernandez scored a late consolation effort for United. Liverpool 4 Manchester United 4 – August 1953 Still the highest-scoring post-war match between the old rivals, with United’s equaliser arriving in controversial fashion when Tommy Taylor bundled the ball and Liverpool keeper Charlie Ashcroft into the back of the net. Jack Rowley gave United the lead, but goals by Louis Bimpson and Bill Jones put the hosts ahead by halftime. Roger Byrne made it 2-2 before Bimpson struck twice in quick succession to complete his hat-trick. Eddie Lewis reduced the arrears before Taylor’s controversial equaliser seven minutes from time sparked outrage from Liverpool’s fans in the Kop. Reuters