For seasoned travellers in search of unique and authentic experiences, Hong Kong has loads more to offer over and above the usual major tourist attractions. While Tim Ho Wan is thought to be one of the most popular destinations for delicious dim sum, and Victoria Peak is considered the ultimate vantage point for jaw-dropping sunsets, Hong Kong is also the home of a range of incredible sights, sounds and flavours. For those travelling to the East for the Hong Kong Sevens, taking place 6-8 April 2018, consider going off the beaten track and immerse yourself in authentic Hong Kong culture. Here are tips from Cathay Pacific: Mong Kok meandering Mong Kok is a bustling cultural district located in Yau Tsim Mong, and is known as one of the biggest shopping areas in Hong Kong – but this is not your average retail experience. Expect stylish local clothing, traditional Chinese crafts at the Ladies’ Market, and a sea of sneaker shops on Sneaker Street offering great deals on the latest kicks. Make a stop at the Sky Bar for a quick cocktail or two and the freshest oysters you’ve ever tasted. Break for tea Known for its love of a good brew, Hong Kong is home to a number of tea shops both traditional and contemporary in style and offerings. Jrink is one of the few newly shops celebrating Hong Kong’s age-old love for tea in a modern and stylish way, equipped with a craft brewing machine to achieve more intricate tea flavour profiles. Indulge in some quirky Chinese cuisine From steamy, satisfying bowls of beef brisket noodles to egg tarts made with crumbly shortcrust and crammed with custardy, buttery fillings, Hong Kong is a foodie’s dream destination, and no trip is complete without an egg waffle. These thick, puffy, crispy mounds of heaven are considered a staple comfort food in Hong Kong and can be found on virtually every street corner, but Lee Keung Kee’s are among the best in town. Black truffle scrambled eggs on toast, a signature dish at Capital Café, is another dish to add to your foodie bucket list – expect the creamiest scrambled eggs you’ve ever had, with black truffle shavings, served on a puffy piece of perfectly toasted bread. Marvel at the old neon signage on Nathan Street Along with eclectic fashion trends, delicious tea and a variety of mouth-watering delicacies both weird and wonderful, Hong Kong’s luminous neon lights are an Instagrammers dream. The best place to capture them in all their incandescent glory is along Nathan Road in Kowloon – Hong Kong’s ‘Golden Mile’. This busy thoroughfare links the Victoria harbour to the Yau Ma Tei Station and  is constantly buzzing with activity, from locals negotiating prices with vendors to street-side cooks whipping up the most amazing dishes right in front of you. Enjoy the never-ending lights any night of the week, and remember to take your camera along with you! Discover Wong Chuk Hang – Hong Kong’s most well-kept secret Wong Chuk Hang (WCH) offers a welcome escape from the constant white noise of the city, featuring a variety of bars, restaurants, design shops and art galleries in a contemporary industrial setting. This up-and-coming urban district doesn’t seem like much at first glance, but venture further in and you’ll find a booming mini-metropolis brimming with lots of creative and interesting things to see and do, much like our local Maboneng. You can grab an expertly brewed cup of coffee at Sensory Zero, a coffee house that roasts its own beans, and features an espresso machine that makes hot and cold caffeine concoctions without using electricity! Visit Yau Ma Tei fruit market You might be thinking, “Surely I can just pop over to the local supermarket and pick up some fruit there?” Think again, because Yau Ma Tei Fruit Market is about so much more than fruit. This eccentric day/night market boasts some of freshest and most exotic produce from all over Asia – and all at wholesale prices to boot! Yau Ma Tei is the perfect place to take in the sights, sounds and smells of Hong Kong at its finest, and a great vantage point to observe the daily ‘wholesale rush’, where locals and vendors flock to this spot for their pick of the best produce. Escape to Sun, Moon and Star Streets For the ultimate ‘urban chic’ experience, head to Hong Kong’s much-loved Star Street precinct in Wan Chai, where some of the hippest shops, restaurants and bars call home. Sink your teeth into a wagyu beef burger and wash it down with a refreshing craft beer from Beef & Liberty on Star Street. Next, get your art and design fix on Sun Street just on the left of Star Street, where you can pick up some interesting lifestyle goods made by local brands – be sure to check out the handmade leather bags just a few doors down at Tsuchiya Kaban, before heading to Ted’s Lookout on Moon Street for a relaxing, lounge-around atmosphere.  