JOHANNESBURG – When his contract with his former club Platinum Stars came to an end, rising star Kobamelo Kodisang had intentionally stalled not to sign a new deal with them up until Bidvest Wits approached him with a better deal. And that’s because the 18-year-old forward didn’t want to be caught up in a possible potential selling of the club, which club chairman Cliff Ramoroa later went on to confess that they had intentions of doing once they had found a potential buyer during the course of this season. Making such a bold decision at age 17 then, not only did it save his career from being a part of what is most likely to become of Dikwena should they decide to sell, but it also saw him transform as a player under his current coach, Gavin Hunt at Wits. “At first, I thought it was going to be a tough transition when I first arrived (at Wits),” Kodisang says. “But I just kept on being positive and kept (in contact) a group of people who have the same mindset as me. And that helped a lot. “Opting not to renew with Dikwena wasn’t a tough decision from my side,” Kodisang adds. “Them being my home team I grew up playing for, approached me with a deal to possibly extend my stay with them going into the new season, but I politely declined. “And the reason I did that was because there was a whole lot of uncertainty surrounding the appointment of the new coach, and also rumours about the club being sold. And so that’s why I took the risk (and jumped ship).” At Wits, Kodisang prides himself on the massive improvement which has taken place in his play, as evidenced in the five games he played for them so far. In his first match for the club against Free State Stars where they were held 2-2, Kodisang won the man-of-the-match award. It was his first such accolade in his playing career since he was introduced to professional football at age 15 back at the Rustenburg club. Besides his desire to help league champions Wits turn the corner in their recent poor run of form in the domestic league race, Kodisang says he would also like to earn a move abroad during his three-year stay at club. The player reckons that working under Hunt, who has produced players such as Uefa Champions League winning, South African legend Benni McCarthy, Dillon Sheppard and most recently Phakamani Mahlambi – who’s now with Egyptian giants Al Ahly – will see him also realise his dream of going abroad one day. “And that’s one of the reasons I decided to join Wits,” Kodisang says. “Part of my decision was that I know that coach Hunt likes to play youngsters, you will have to work for it in training, though. I also knew that I was going to get the desired game time after coming here. “Just looking at my progression from the national Under-17s, Under-20s, Platinum Stars and now Wits, I’m happy with my growth. My goal is to one day earn the dream move of going abroad. “The plan is to start in small countries (in Europe) and work my way to the bigger and well known leagues from there onwards,” Kodisang adds. “Countries like Croatia, Czech Republic, Portugal and maybe Belgium as well. That’s where I want to start. “I believe starting there will help build my confidence (of being a success in bigger leagues) in Europe. My dream is to play for any of the English Premier League teams out in England. That’s my goal.” @Mohau_Ra  The Star Like IOL Sport on Facebook 