Whitley, England - There are so many different Range Rover models on offer these days that it’s easy to forget about the original, big Rangie that continues to occupy the throne at the very top of the line-up. Following hot on the heels of its Sport cousin, the Range Rover has been given a makeover for the 2018 model year, with new cabin tech and the addition of a plug-in hybrid variant. Exterior enhancements are subtle, but include snazzy new Pixel-laser LED headlights and a new grille. The Range Rover is also slightly perkier, at the top of the range at least, with the 5-litre supercharged V8 SVAutobiography version getting a slight output hike, from 405kW to 410kW and from 680Nm to 700Nm, allowing the massive cruise liner to surge from 0-100km/h in just 5.1 seconds, according to Land Rover. For those with a greener conscience, a plug-in hybrid variant, badged P400e, is set to come on stream for the 2019 model year. Mating an Ingenium 2-litre turbopetrol engine to an 85kW electric motor, the drivetrain boasts total system outputs of 297kW and 640Nm, and has a claimed electric-only range of 51km. As before, the Range Rover is also available with supercharged V6 and V8 petrol engines and a V6 turbodiesel. As with the recently-facelifted Range Rover Sport, the Range Rover now boasts JLR’s Touch Pro Duo infotainment system, featuring a pair of vertically-stacked 25cm screens, from which occupants can swipe info from one to the other. The company has also put considerable effort into making the seats more comfortable, with the front seats getting new frames that allow for 24-way movement. Land Rover has also redesigned the rear cabin and the back seats can now recline by up to 40 degrees. But perhaps the most comforting news is the Hot Stone massage technology that offers up to 25 different massage programmes, and those frosty winter mornings will never be a problem again, with the arm, foot and calf rests being heated. The Range Rover also offers up to 18 connection points, including a domestic plug socket, and 4G Wifi for up to eight devices. Other available luxuries include a gesture-controlled sunblind, Activity Key, Meridian sound systems (up to 1700W and 29 speakers) and new three-zone ambient lighting. All the good stuff that JLR likes to gloat about nowadays, in other words. But when can I order mine? JLR SA says the new Range Rover is destined for our shores, but  timing has yet to be confirmed.   IOL Motoring