'Thor: Ragnarok' is a thrilling ride and sees the 'God of Thunder' finding his voice in an action-packed film. Rating: 4/5 The latest addition to the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), picks up after the events of Doctor Strange and while our other heroes have carried on since Civil War, Thor is hard at work trying to prevent Ragnarok (the end of days) from happening. READ: Spider-Man - Homecoming Review This is Chris Hemsworth's best portrayal of the Son of Odin with Thor really for the first having an identifiable personality. This is great thanks to the brilliant script by Eric Pearson, Craig Kyleand Christopher Yost. Ragnarok is tonally a total 180 shift from 'Thor: The Dark World' and it really is a necessary change. The addition of Cate Blanchett really paid off, with the Academy Award-winning actress' portrayal of Hela being one of the many highlights in the film. While Hela’s motives are a bit hazy at the beginning Blanchett gives a great performance and is one of the few great villains in the MCU. Thor and Loki’s(Tom Hiddleston) relationship finds more growth and Hemsworth and Hiddleston’s chemistry is undeniable. Director Taika Waititi extracted great performances from all his actors with even the supporting characters having moments where they shine. The action and fight scenes are also spectacular. Ragnarok has the most action out of all the Thor films which are paced brilliantly throughout the movie. This is also one of the funniest MCU films with 'Guardians of the Galaxy 2' being to only one that rivals it. This is mostly due to Hemsworth’s brilliant comic timing and his interactions with Hulk (Mark Ruffalo) and Valkyrie (Tessa Thompson). This film, for the most part, is a standalone story with it not acting as a film that’s there to set up the upcoming Avengers: Infinity War. Marvel has really perfected the art of striking a balance between their interconnected universe and having their standalone films working on their own. 'Thor: Ragnarok' is another home run for Marvel. With Black Panther only a few months away, Ragnarok keeps the winning train going and will have you beaming with excitement for the upcoming 'Avengers: Infinity War' in late 2018.