DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs have opted not to sign Cameroon strikers Christ Mbondi and Juilen Ebah. The duo were trying their luck at Amakhosi as Chiefs are still searching for a marksman who is lethal in front of goal. Amakhosi are currently relying on the trio of Gustavo Paez, Bernard Parker and Ryan Moon. Chiefs transfer-listed Edward Manqele, Siphelele Mthembu, Lewis Macha and Michelle Katsvairo at the end of last season. Chiefs team manager Bobby Motaung confirmed to Independent Media that Amakhosi won’t sign the two Cameroonian front-men. “They have both left. The coach decided against signing them,” Motaung explained. Chiefs have also been linked to Knowledge Musona, but his agent Mike Makaab of ProSport International dismissed the rumour. Chiefs have tried different options, but none of those have really impressed Amakhosi boss Steve Komphela – the likes of Jonatan Phillipe from Argentina, and Okiki Afolabi from Nigeria. Meanwhile, no damage was done at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban after Kaizer Chiefs supporters displayed their unhappiness following their defeat to Baroka FC. Chiefs supporters were incensed by Amakhosi’s display, and some fans threw missiles on to the pitch, while others tried to jump over the fence in their quest to reach the players and the coach. Stadium manager at Moses Mabhida, Vusi Mazibuko, told Independent Media: “No damage was done at Moses Mabhida Stadium, according to the report that I got. I want to thank our team of securities for the good work they did. “They anticipated the situation and no damage to property was done and no people were injured. “What happened was uncalled for. This trend of people fighting when they lose is not on. This needs to be addressed. People need to accept defeat in the right manner.” Chiefs are scheduled to play three of their 15 home matches at Moses Mabhida Stadium. The 2010 Fifa World Cup venue will also host the MTN8 final between Cape Town City and SuperSport United on October 14. “Such behaviour from the fans will not jeopardise our chances of hosting major sports events. We are not afraid at all, but we are worried that people want to solve problems by fighting each other. This is not right,” Mazibuko said. “As the stadium, we are always ready for such situations.” Mabhida will also host the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between Bafana Bafana and Libya in March next year. @minenhlecr7  Isolezwe, IOL Sport