Johannesburg - The number of pupils sexually assaulted at the AB Xuma Primary in Soweto allegedly by a scholar patroller has increased to 87, the  Gauteng Department of Education (GDE) said on Friday. "It is disappointing that we keep receiving such depressing information from our officials who are hard at work conducting necessary counselling at the said school," Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said in a statement. The department said that it would continue to monitor the situation. On Thursday, the department confirmed that the principal and the entire senior management of the school had been removed from with immediate effect following sexual assault allegations of learners by a scholar patroller. At the time, Lesufi said that the department remained grateful to stakeholders, especially the Teddy Bear Clinic and our Psycho Social Support Services. "I am grateful that the department has prioritised this matter and we will leave no stone un-turned,” Lesufi said at the time. “This is necessitated by the seriousness of the allegations of sexual assault of about 54 learners, by a scholar patroller at the school, who was subsequently arrested on Monday, 09 October 2017,” the department said in an earlier statement. The number rose from 54 pupils to 87 after more pupils reported that they were sexually assaulted. The man appeared in the Protea Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday, and was remanded in police custody until his next court appearance on October 18. The GDE said they would be engaging with the School Governing Body (SGB) to establish the reasons why they should not be dissolved. “An independent body has been appointed to investigate all allegations levelled against the principal and her management.” The department said that they were satisfied with the counselling process which was conducted by a Multi-Discipline Team, made up of GDE officials, Departments of Social Development, Health and the Teddy Bear Clinic. “We will continue to closely monitor the situation.” African News Agency Read more: Sex predator at Soweto school allegedly molested 54 Grade Rs