Ichingo Chobe River Lodge, part of the Zambezi Queen Collection and falling under the Mantis Collection, was named Namibia’s Leading Tented Safari Camp 2017 at the recent World Travel Awards Africa. The World Travel Awards celebrates its 24th anniversary this year and is recognised across the globe as the ultimate travel accolade, with winners setting the benchmark to which all others aspire. The event took place at the five-star Radisson Blu Hotel and Convention Centre in Rwanda. The World Travel Awards are voted for by travel and tourism professionals worldwide and this accolade recognises the commitment to excellence Ichingo Chobe River Lodge has demonstrated over the past year. “We have recognised the leading lights of African tourism and I wish to offer my heartfelt congratulations to all of our winners” said World Travel Awards President Graham Cooke. Ichingo Chobe River Lodge was recently grouped with the prestigious Zambezi Queen and three smaller houseboats known as the Chobe Princesses to form the Zambezi Queen Collection, a stable of truly unique properties that capture the true spirit and adventure of Africa. Lisa Dyboll, Joint Owner and Sales and Marketing Manager for the Zambezi Queen Collection, said Ichingo Chobe River Lodge features eight large air-conditioned Meru safari tents set on a secluded island beneath a riverine canopy on the banks of the Chobe River. "Guests can step out on to their own private balcony to listen to the rapids, relax on their bed and then head to the dining room or bar for something delicious to eat or drink. Because of its unique geographic location, the game viewing and bird watching in and around Ichingo Chobe River Lodge is second to none. "The lodge’s location is particularly well known for its high quality fishing in over 100kms of the Chobe and Zambezi Rivers, where avid fishermen can hook tiger fish, bream and several other fresh water species,” says Dyboll. Ichingo Chobe River Lodge will go on to compete in the World Travel Awards Grand Final at the JW Marriott Phu Quoc Emerald Bay Resort and Spa in Vietnam on December 10, 2017.