Las Vegas, Nevada - BMW has brought the new M5 to the Specialty Equipment Market Association show in Las Vegas accompanied by a whole catalogue of M Performance aftermarket parts, most of which will be available as retrofit components when the new M5 goes on sale during the first quarter of 2018, with more to follow in July 2018. The new M5 has a revised twin-turbo 4.4-litre V8, now delivering a quoted 441kW (up from 412kW) and 750Nm, and driving all four wheels (a first for an M5) via a an eight-speed M Steptronic autobox with three modes and steering-mounted shift paddles and an M-specific version of BMW's xDrive. The aerodynamic components are all hand-made in carbon-fibre, including a new front apron, side sill attachments, and a choice of two different rear spoilers.  A further range of trim elements includes front and air breather side trim grilles, and side mirror housings, all in visible carbon fibre, as well as M Performance side sill foils. Also on offer will be carbon ceramic brakes, with race-proven brake pads and re-calibrated brake-force distribution for improved stability under the very hard braking they provide; as well as red coil springs with adjustable spring plates for a ‘pro motorsport’ look (although their spring rates are the same as the black-finished standard springs). A new Performance sports exhaust system (for the United States and Canadian markets only - sorry, guys) with titanium end can and optional carbon-fibre tips, reduces back-pressure and provides a sporty sound-track. Drive Analyser The race-derived M Performance Drive Analyser records various engine data, speed and peak values, what gear you’re in, when you use the accelerator pedal and brakes, and lateral acceleration - which you can download onto your smartphone via a free app, for bragging rights in the garage. And for more bragging rights, there’s the Trackfix action camera holder, which can be mounted in the threaded bush of either the front or rear mounting towing lug. M’s got the look You can up the street cred factor with go-fast stripes in signature M colours, and a handmade carbon-fibre engine cover extension kit. There’s an M Performance steering wheel with distinctive geometry and grip areas trimmed in alcantara synthetic suede, as well as new carbon-fibre shift paddles and gear lever cover. And finally no go-fast catalogue is complete without the obligatory logo’d floor mats, as well as a mixed alcantara and carbon-fibre key wallet and an M Performance LED logo projector. IOL Motoring  