Last week, Weekend Argus exposed Fialkov’s alleged reign of terror on Twitter which turned the lives of several people upside down, leading to an attempted suicide and causing depression for many. Fialkov’s modus operandi sees him target women who reject his unwanted sexual advances. He also embarks on a smear campaign against the men who come to their defence. When Weekend Argus started the investigation more than a month ago, many of the people who came forward did not want to be identified, but now some have opened up. Earl Hendricks said he has suffered harassment by Fialkov for the past year-and-a-half: “This man went through my Twitter timeline from as far back as 2012 and re-tweeted some of my tweets out of context. He made me seem like I am a sex-obsessed person. “I have family and colleagues on my Twitter timeline and I don’t speak about sex. Also, I tweet about 45 times a day, so you can imagine the time this man spent on making my life a living hell,” said Hendricks. Read: 'Cape Town cyber sex-pest has made our lives hell' He told Weekend Argus he suffered with depression since Fialkov started his cyber campaign. “I have been degraded and humiliated. I became a daily hashtag.” Fialkov is listed on LinkedIn as a freelance IT support technician and events company owner. He allegedly began his crusade against women who reject him and men who “call him to order’ in 2011. When the women reacted negatively to Fialkov’s alleged overtures, he dug up their past social media opinions and used these to shame and humiliate, and threatened them into removing their counter comments on his activities. Radio presenter and part-time actress Megan Scholtz told Weekend Argus that what started as harmless chats with Fialkov on Twitter soon turned into uncomfortable sex talk. “He became very personal. He started asking about my sexual life and if I would send him pictures of myself. I asked him to stop messaging me as I didn’t appreciate those kinds of questions. He then started becoming very rude and threatening me. He also kept telling me he could get me acting jobs, I would just have to meet with him to discuss a contract. “This is where I drew the line because I’ve been in this industry long enough to know not to trust anybody on social media when it comes to my work,” said Scholtz. The woman at the centre of last week’s attempted suicide told Weekend Argus Fialkov strung together her tweets and sent the “out-of-context tweets” to her manager. The woman faced disciplinary procedures and has been suffering with depression since 2015. Several others have come forward citing the same experience. Several attempts by the Weekend Argus this week to contact Fialkov for comment did not yield results. Fialkov’s cell phone goes straight to voicemail and neither he nor his office responded to any e-mails and telephone calls. It now appears that Fialkov’s Twitter handle @777productions5 has been deleted. According to the people who survived Fialkov’s alleged harassment, he changes his handle frequently and after some time away, emerges as someone new and the horror begins anew. Weekend Argus