SHANGHAI – US Open champion Brooks Koepka made a strong start to his first hit-out of the new season, shooting an eight-under 64 to grab a one-stroke lead at the $9.75 million WGC-HSBC Champions event in Shanghai on Thursday. Koepka plundered seven birdies and an eagle, on the par-five 18th, at Sheshan Golf Club to break clear of Malaysia’s Gavin Green and Kiradech Aphibarnrat of Thailand in joint second. South Africa’s Haydn Porteous and American Patrick Reed were a stroke further behind on six-under, with World No 1 Dustin Johnson four strokes adrift after shooting 68 in sublime conditions for golf. “I think I played really well, putted very well,” Koepka said after his round. “I feel like I started really well, drove it really well. Any time you’re making putts... you’re going to shoot good.” The American enjoyed a stellar 2016-17 on the US Tour, claiming his maiden major title in June and capping the season with a role in the United States’ Presidents Cup victory. Starting his round at the 10th hole, the 27-year-old rolled in a 21-foot putt for eagle on the 18th before stumbling with a bogey on the par-four third. He responded brilliantly to the setback, however, landing his next tee shot two feet from the pin for a tap-in birdie. After another birdie at the par-four seventh gave him a share of the lead, he rolled in a delightful downhill putt from the fringe of the green at the par-five eighth to move clear and held steady with a par on the last.   Long-hitting Johnson, chasing his third WGC title of 2017, had a slower start in his season-opener. He notched six birdies, but was left cursing his second bogey of the day at the eighth, his penultimate hole. Johnson finished in a big group on four-under that included Swede Henrik Stenson and Spain’s Rafa Cabrera Bello. Former US Open winner Justin Rose was three off the pace on five-under, along with American Matt Kuchar after the pair opened with 67s. Former world number one Jason Day shot a 69 to be five behind after enduring a mostly frustrating day on the greens. Hideki Matsuyama suffered a horror triple bogey seven at the third in a scratchy round of 74, and has plenty of work to do over the next few days if he is to successfully defend his title. Reuters