Blood, guts, and gore (all fake of course). Ridiculous costumes and trick-or-treating children. Yes, this is how Halloween is usually celebrated. However if none of this appeals to you but you still want to be part of the spookiness that this holiday offers, check out these eerie, freaky and frightening movies and TV series on Netflix. Friday the 13th
In this remake of the classic slasher flick, a group of teenage camp counsellors raise the wrath of Jason Voorhees. The masked, homicidal maniac and his machete are sure to have you diving under the covers to kick off your fright night binge! The Conjuring Frightening reality really hits home with the spine-chilling thriller, based on true events. The story of a New England family who begins having encounters with spirits will have you on the edge of your seats and your mind at the end of its tether.   The Mist S1 Based on the story by legendary horror and supernatural fiction writer, Stephen King, The Mist is sure to keep you hanging in suspense, as thick as the air itself. Centred around a small town family torn apart by a brutal crime, as they deal with the fallout an eerie mist rolls in, suddenly cutting them off from the rest of the world, and in some cases, each other. Family, friends and adversaries become strange bedfellows, battling the mysterious mist and its threats, whilst fighting to maintain morality and sanity as the rules of society break down.  Bates Motel S1-4
This TV horror thriller follows Norman Bates and his mother as they open a hotel after the death of his father while his mental state leads down an increasingly dark and violent path.    Scream Trilogy What’s better than one Ghostface slasher movie? Three in a row! The young residents of Woodsboro are joined by a creepy phone stalker and lunatic killer with a penchant for horror movies and strange white masks. Who will survive and for how long? Hemlock Grove S1-3 The murder mystery revolves around the residents of a former Pennsylvania steel town. When 17- year-old Brooke Bluebell is brutally murdered, any of Hemlock’s peculiar inhabitants - or killer creatures - could be suspects. Through the investigation, the town’s seamier side is exposed, revealing nothing is what it seems. Beautiful, terrifying and graphic, Hemlock Grove is unlike anything else in its genre.   Scooby Doo For something a little spooky and fun, reminisce on the fright nights of your younger years, or introduce an entirely new generation to the legendary Scooby and the gang in the hilariously thrilling Scooby Doo movies. Can the teen crime solvers and their pooch crack these mysteries? IOL