JOHANNESBURG – Mamelodi Sundowns president Patrice Motsepe wants Pitso Mosimane to be the Brazilians’ Sir Alex Ferguson by staying at Chloorkop for a long and successful period. Mosimane is the club’s longest-serving coach since Motsepe bought Sundowns in 2004. The former Bafana Bafana coach has been at his current club longer than any of the 15 other coaches in the Absa Premiership. “Jingles” took over a Sundowns team that was on the brink of relegation five years ago. He transformed that team from overpaid under-achievers to accumulating a record seven league titles, adding two to the five that they had, and importantly conquered the continent last year to give Motsepe the Caf Champions League trophy he was obsessed with. “People who have worked with me, outside football, have always worked with me for a long time,” Motsepe said at Hyundai’s headquarters in Bedfordview after the club announced a three-year sponsorship with the South Korean automobile company. “I have been privileged to work with some of the best people for many, many years. “The same thing in football. When I bought Mamelodi Sundowns, the objective was to have a management and technical team that can be with the club for many years as possible, including when we aren’t doing well. “That’s when a club can reap the benefits of that experience. We all learn and we all make mistakes. At times we don’t succeed and at times we do well. “There is nothing that will please me more, personally, than for Pitso to stay here for a long time. That’s when a club can reap the benefits of that experience. “It starts with me…The longer a person is in the same position, the greater the consistency and the experience is highly beneficial.” Motsepe continued: “I would like Pitso to be, I don’t want to say (Arsenal manager) Arsene Wenger because Arsene Wenger has challenges. “I would like him to be the Alex Ferguson of Mamelodi Sundowns… Pitso, in South Africa, I’d like him to be the Alex Ferguson of South African football.” @NJABULON  IOL Sport Like IOL Sport on Facebook 