This year University of Johannesburg and Slow Food Johannesburg are proud to present SOWETO EAT IN 2017. This event brings together urban farmers, food producers, chef schools and upcoming exciting chefs from well known establishments as well as academics, well known personalities and everyone else who loves good, clean and fair food. DATE: Saturday 7 October 2017 TIME: 10h00 - 17h00 VENUE: Funda Ujabule, UJ Soweto Campus Costs: R20 entry fee, R20 per Skaftini, Free entrance into Conferences & attendance at launch of Food Garden Parking: Safe off site with donkey cart chaffeur rides to venue Skaftini Challenge This year Slow Food and World Food Programme with the Dieticians’ Association have issued a challenge to chefs schools to produce the tastiest, healthiest lunchbox for R20. Headed up by Chef and Culinary activist Adele Stiehler - van der Westhuizen from Prue Leith Chefs Academy, the various schools with their students will be selling these lunchboxes on the day. Limited number of lunchboxes will be for sale on the day from 10h00. The winner will be announced at 16h00. Proceeds will go to Slow Food 10 000 Food Garden’s Programme. IZINDABA ZOKUDLA CONFERENCE 2017 Under the direction of Dr Naude Malan of University of Johannesburg, this year the Conference has a vast array of dignitaries attending and speaking. The topics being covered are: Conversations about Food - Izindaba Zokudla Model & other conversations about old food topics This panel includes esteemed speakers like Sarah Frazee of Conservation South Africa discussing their “Meat Naturally Programme” that proves when community have bought in to conservation goals they are able to produce meat in a sustainable value chain. Sidla - We are Eating! Why is it that we eat only 14 super crops and a total of only 140 foods worldwide when there is such diversity available. Award winning author and well known personality Anna Trapido discusses with her other panelists why foods from our past hold the key to good health, good environmental practices and a new food system to feed an ever increasing population.

City Foods for City Desserts - 10 000 Food Gardens Well respected Audrey Wainwright of Bryanston Market PGS and Thendo Ratshitanga amongst others, discuss how urban farmers and rooftop gardens can meet the demands of providing fresh, good, clean and fair food for city dwellers. Community Eats - Local Markets Headed by Simagele Seko who started the Soweto Market Place farmers’ market, this panel explores how emerging farmers markets assist in bringing together the community as they grow, eat and share in common food. Smart Food at the Push of Button There is a fast growing culture of online solutions for every problem and food is no different. From the Khula app that connects urban farmers with end consumers to Just Now app that offers massive discounts in retail supermarkets to avoid food waste, the panel explores the role of technology in bringing about better food in a shorter value chain. Empty Calories Empty Stomachs - Why South African kids are not being fed food for their successful future Included on this panel are the World Food Programme’s head of nutrition discussing the peculiar problem of obesity in childhood on the rise and yet nutrient deficiencies in children. How are we feeding kids and why are we starving them of a successful future? Entrance into the conference is free to everyone who has paid the gate fee of R20 Conference 2 - Exploring Food & Climate Change Issues Through Art In the second theatre there will be screenings of videos like Julia Roberts as Mother Nature in Conservation International’s promotional videos followed by a brief talk by Conservation SA about their work with communities around SA. In addition, renowned South African artist Hannelie Coetzee will briefly present how and why she burned art into Nirox Sculpture Park in Magaliesburg to promote conservation and food. Entrance is free into the music, video and art shows in this conference hall.