'Catching Feelings', Kagiso Lediga’s directorial debut, premieres in South Africa on Tuesday, October 17. The film premiered at the Los Angeles Film Festival (LAFF) in June and recently had its East Coast premiere in New York at Urbanworld Film Festival. Catching Feelings is written by, and stars local comic Kagiso Lediga. The film follows a jaded academic (Lediga) and his journalist wife, (Pearl Thusi), who have their lives turned upside down when a celebrated and hedonistic older writer (Andrew Buckland) unexpectedly moves into their urban Johannesburg home with them. Despite their love for each other, their relationship has hit a rut. Lacking excitement, the couple have settled into a routine that neither agrees with. Max now spends his time at dinners and events, musing over his frustrations with his key conspirator and sounding board, Joel (Akin Omotoso), who himself has his hands full with an illicit affair. The film also features Zandi Tisani, Precious Makgaretsa and Kate Liquorish. “I wanted to make a fun film about Johannesburg. It is a place full of contradictions. It is Africa’s business capital and culturally diverse with a very messy recent history. I find it fascinating that the 30-something, black, middle class characters portrayed in this film never existed 20 years ago because it was essentially illegal to be black and middle class and I guess it would also be impossible to engage in angst ridden, existential navel gazing when you’re fleeing tear gas and rubber bullets from the Apartheid cops. Although it is rumored that the 30-something year olds of Apartheid times had a greater sense of purpose," says Lediga.  Matwetwe (Wizard) is a coming-of-age adventure following Lefa and Papi, best friends and recent high school graduates, on the hustle of their young lives. Over the course of an action packed New Year’s Eve in the iconic township of Atteridgeville, the boys try to score a huge deal, dodge a kingpin gangster and his violent minions, get the girl and ultimately save their lives in this hilarious escapade. “The process of developing this story located in my childhood neighbourhood and working with young actors from around Atteridgeville and Pretoria was very exciting,” adds Lediga. 