The City of Cape Town’s mayoral committee member Anda Ntsodo joins MEC for Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela, and MPL Lennit Max in the race to become the party’s provincial leader to replace Mayor Patricia de Lille, who resigned from the position in January. Candidates will elect a new leadership for the province on Saturday. So far the race has been thought to be a two-way fight between Madikizela and Max, who have been fierce competitors from the onset. However, Ntsodo’s surprise candidacy may throw a spanner in the works, taking votes from Madikizela and Max’s support bases. “The main thing about me is that I am offering the members of the DA an alternative because, one of two things, I am clean so far. I have not been tainted by any scandal. I also believe in liberal values of not accepting mediocrity, corruption, cronyism and nepotism. I want to instil that in all members of the DA,” he said. Investigations into possible misconduct by Madikizela over failing to declare a R3 000 birthday cake given to him at a party at the One&Only hotel earlier this year may dent his chances. According to the provincial legislature’s rules, members must declare all gifts with a value of more than R1500. Investigations have since stalled following the resignation of the registrar probing the matter as well as that of Max, who sat as the chairperson of the committee investigating his opponent. Ntsodo said were he to be elected, he would focus his attention on building the party in preparation for the 2019 national elections. “If I am lucky enough to be elected the provincial leader, I won’t lead alone. I want to pull all the DA leaders, outside the party so that we try and solve the problems of the country. This is not about me as an individual, it is about the party and the people of this country,” he said. Ntsodo, an ally of De Lille, said working with the mayor during last year’s municipal elections taught him a lot about canvassing votes for the party. “As a member of the mayoral committee in the city, I am always on the ground working to solve people’s problems so I have a clue on what we need to do to bring better life to the people of the Western Cape,” he said. “And whoever is elected on Saturday, if it is not me, will have my full support.” Others vying for positions are MEC for Social Development Albert Fritz and MPL Masizole Mnqasela, who are running for deputy leader, while Anton Bredell and Anroux Marais are aiming at the role of provincial chairperson. Other positions up for contestation include three positions for provincial deputy chairperson and four additional provincial leaders positions which are being contended for by 25 candidates. Weekend Argus