CAPE TOWN - Unconventional company, The Work Space, provides a new spin to working, with its premium serviced office and co-working space. The Work Space is an innovative company that provides a co-working space to small businesses, entrepreneurs and corporates. The idea behind co-working is to provide a conducive space for businesses and entrepreneurs to conduct business, without paying the traditional office space amount. This is also accessible to a wider audience as you pay per month, as you go.    It provides all of the resources required to conduct a business such as fibre internet, a business address and meeting rooms. Notably, there are various packages involved. This ensures that the space is tailor-made to suite each business or corporate. The Work Space has signed up 100 members in the year since it opened in October 2016. The trend has increased over the past year, notes Mari Schourie, chief executive officer of The Workspace. “Now, as we interrogate our marketing reports, we can see the demand for co-working has increased rapidly,” she says. “We have definitely noted Pretoria being ahead of the co-working trend. It seems to come more naturally to our Pretoria members. But I must add that co-working is picking up at each and every branch; you can definitely see the shift taking place". Schourie's experience of developing work spaces extend across Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Hence, she is able to identify sectors where growth is taking place. “It’s not just small businesses, entrepreneurs, start-ups and freelancers who are using our spaces, but blue chip companies too,” she says. “Increasingly they need satellite offices for staff too and it makes economic sense to use serviced office spaces. Our target market is vast and it is important to get the message across of what we do and how we do it", says Schourie. Pretoria's branch of The Work Space, The Club in Hazelwood is booming with opportunity. It is situated in close proximity to restaurants and the gym. Schourie adds that they find plenty of freelancers and small companies looking for larger space. This further atribute to the growth of this co-working space. Additionally, the urban demand is depicted by a recent survey by global marketing research company, Nielsen. According to the survey, 62% of millennials prefer urban life. However, there is an added benefit when urban life is offered in a communal sense. The Workspace has built a community, says Schourie. "It can get very lonely for small businesses. Here at The Workspace you speak to like-minded people every day, you can bounce off ideas from one another, you network at our functions but also on a daily basis at the coffee bar inside our facilities". The Work Space branches: GAUTENG 1. Centurion 2. Blackheath 3. Melrose Arch 4. Midrand 5. Morningside Manor 6. Pretoria 7. Randburg 8. Sunninghill 9. Wynberg PIETERMARITZBURG BRANCHES COMING SOON IN 2017 1. Centurion 2. Johannesburg 3. Linden 4. Ballito BRANCH COMING SOON IN 2018 1. Sea Point, Cape Town WATCH  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. READ ALSO: Rise of co -working spaces set to shake up commercial property in SA - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE