Travelling can be exciting, but there is also the dreaded safety factor that one has to consider before planning that trip.With all the recent incidents taking place across the globe, it is only natural for travellers to be weary. One should always make certain they are safe guarded before planning a trip. They ought to think about their destination, research the safety factor and possible ways to react should an attack, theft or natural disaster takes place. The truth is that incidents can happen anywhere and anytime, the tip to survive is to know how to handle it. I believe that safety starts from the time you leave home, as you drive to the airport, to your hotel at the next destination. In the movie Snatched, Emily Middleton, played by Amy Schumer, gets dumped by her boyfriend on the eve of her vacation to Ecuador in South America. She persuades her mother Linda, played by Goldie Hawn, to accompany her. At first, everything runs smoothly until they get kidnapped by a drug gang. While the movie is meant to have comic appeal, it addresses a big issue that safety is never to be compromised. As travellers, we need to be cautious. Incidents can happen at any time and if you are not vigilant, you could end up being a victim. I recommend having the emergency numbers of your hotel, the nearest police station, hospital and other institution. These numbers will come in handy when confronted with an incident and will get you help quicker. 
One of the items on my to do list when travelling is to make copies of my documents that I scatter it throughout my personal belongings like bags and wallets. If something does happen, it will be easier to find information. I also alert the people back home or those travelling with me about where I am going and the time I will be back. It may seem trivial to do so, but it can actually be beneficial when visiting a foreign country. When out in public, understand the place you are in. If you are out at a nightclub or concert, make certain that you know the certain entry and exit points. People tend to take this for granted. This does not mean you should be afraid throughout your whole trip. Travelling is meant to be fun, a time to relax and unwind from the daily pressures of life. However, showing some caution can make any holiday a memorable and safe one.