SACP provincial chairperson James Nxumalo told a press briefing on Monday that the SAPS was the only arm of policing mandated to provide security, and that only they could ask the metro police for assistance if needed. “In eThekwini, metro police are being deployed by the regional office of the ANC. We will approach the public protector and the ANC about the matter,” Nxumalo said. There was metro police presence in many BGMs which were held in Durban at the weekend. Supporters of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed this provided an unfair advantage to their counterparts, who wanted to nominate Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma “unopposed”. Nxumalo, who is the former mayor of eThekwini Municipality, said he would also approach Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. He said his branch at Inchanga village in Durban held their meeting on Sunday and some branch members who did not support Dlamini Zuma had been excluded. The branch nominated Dlamini Zuma unopposed. Metro police acting deputy head Sbonelo Mchunu said his officers were at the BGMs to provide protection to community members who had attended. “We do that jointly with the SAPS as a policing function to prevent public violence. The moment you have over 50 people, and where there is potential for violence, we have a responsibility,” said Mchunu. Some party members alleged that in pro-Ramaphosa branches, the meetings were postponed after regional leaders did not arrive. Ward 4 secretary Mzwandile Zungu said his branch members had to call another regional executive committee member after a deployee did not arrive. The branch nominated Ramaphosa. In Kokstad, seven out of eight branches nominated Dlamini Zuma and one Ramaphosa. “We are going to complain to Gwede Mantashe because our people were prevented from attending the meeting,” said a Ramaphosa supporter. Bheki Ntuli, the regional secretary of the ANC, said all 32 branch general meetings were peaceful. On the matter of Nxumalo not knowing about the BGMs in his ward, Ntuli said the meetings had been well publicised. The Mercury