Eastern Cape – Pupils enrolled to write their matric exams in the OR Tambo Coastal District (previously known as Lusikisiki) are not confident that they will achieve good marks in mathematics. A number of pupils in Flagstaff said they did not feel ready to write their final exams that are set to start tomorrow and continue until November 28. A pupil (who did not want to be named) from Flagstaff Comprehensive High School said although she felt ready for her exams, she was scared to write maths. “Mathematics is the only subjects that frustrates me. The teacher just passes each chapter without ensuring that we have all understood clearly. I am really struggling and have dedicated myself to attend extra classes and study groups. But I doubt I will make it. For mid-year exams I did badly in maths so that clearly shows that I will not make it,” she said. Yamkela Nosenga from Palmerton High School in Lusikisiki says she has applied to study medicine at Walter Sisulu University, although she also felt that maths was her biggest frustration and would be the subject that holds her back. “I would love to be a doctor one day, so I have to ensure that I have good marks in maths. I have done all I could like joining study groups, practising previous exams question papers and attending extra classes. But I am not confident that I will achieve good marks in maths. "I am not worried about any of my other subjects. I’m certain that I will get distinctions. But with mathematics, it’s a different case. "Another challenge I have at home is that I’m expected to perform household chores while I just want to study. I wish that when we prepare for our exams we could be allocated hostel room and go home only when we are done with exams,” Yamkela said. A pupil from Flagstaff Comprehensive High School who has enrolled to write electrical engineering said he has been battling due to lack of resources at the school that made it difficult to perform practical work, and their teacher was regularly absent from school. “Our electrical engineering teacher does not usually come to class. In one month he comes to class only about five or six times. This is killing my passion for the subject that I have always loved. Our school lacks resources, so our teacher theorises everything. It would be interesting if we could do some practical work as well,” he said. Regardless all the challenges mentioned by the pupils, spokesperson Mali Mtima of the Eastern Cape Department of Basic Education said the province was ready for the 2017 final examinations. “It is all systems go for the Eastern Cape Education Department. Preparation for the final senior certificate has been done. A Provincial Examination Management Plan was developed in February and amended in May. The province has adhered to it strictly,” he said. Health-e News