Cape Town - Henri van Breda’s defence team revealed it may withdraw from representing him because funds are running out. The revelation came at the end of the day when the defence’s DNA witness, Dr Antonel Olckers, gave evidence in rebuttal of the state’s DNA witness Lieutenant Colonel Sharlene Otto. This was not the first time the triple murder-accused's team had revealed its client’s financial situation, but as the defence prepares witnesses, it has become a mounting issue for Van Breda. Also read: #VanBredaTrial: Ballistics expert grilled by defence Dr Olckers gave her expert opinion on the report compiled by Lt Col Otto, pointing out numerous instances in which the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) by the Forensic Science Laboratory were not correctly adhered to. Olckers was attempting to prove that due to the SOPs not being followed, it rendered results “technically invalid”. A valid result can only be reached if the data, interpretation and conclusion is valid, she said. Also read: #VanBredaTrial: Ballistics expert gives evidence "In science there is a world of difference between an answer and a scientific answer." Otto, who was present in court to consult with state lawyer Susan Galloway, repeatedly voiced her disagreement with Olckers’ testimony when she would sigh or shake her head. Ocklers also highlighted that the Forensic Science Laboratory is not an yet an accredited forensic laboratory. However, Otto confirmed the laboratory followed international operating procedure. Also read: #VanBredaTrial: Paramedic tells of horror murder scene While the Forensic Science Laboratory is formally recognised, Ocklers said that the lack of accreditation means there is no standardised independent audit of the forensic laboratory. Ocklers criticised Otto’s interpretation and reporting on the mixed DNA evidence results which contained the profiles Rudi, Henri and their mother Teresa. Ocklers said Otto only dealt with the qualitative aspects of the DNA profiles but not the quantitative data. Ocklers testified that when taking the ratio of male to female DNA contained in each sample into account, it is more probable that the mixture result contained mixtures of only male DNA. Court will resume on Tuesday with the defence expected to wrap up Ockler’s testimony. Henri Van Breda stands accused of the murder of his brother, Rudi, his father Martin, and his mother Teresa. He is charged with the attempted murder of his sister, Marli.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus