In one year, Zee World has put 250 movies on your small screen. And the channel shows no signs of slowing down. “We plan to bring the best of the blockbusters, first,” said Zee TV African and Indian Ocean Islands chief executive, Harish Goyal at the network’s content showcase. You can watch many of these films on DStv’s Zee World and Zee Cinema International on StarSat. One film to look forward to before the year comes to a close is Jazbaa. it's about a world-class lawyer whose morals and love for her child are tested. After her daughter is abducted, Anuradha Verma is told she will only ever see her child again if she represents a man convicted of raping and killing a young woman. Redi's book gives insight into Khwezi's background This film is particularly significant because it is Aishwarya Rai’s first appearance in a film role after a five-year hiatus. Jazbaa is a crime-drama but there are plenty of other genres to look forward to. Bollywood thrives on the romcom and in this genre, Shah Rukh Khan shows up in a myriad roles. As a psychologist in Dear Zindagi and as a bootlegger who constantly has run-ins with the law in Raees. Interestingly, there is also a film, Half Girlfriend, which is adapted from a novel written by Chetan Bhagat. Shraddha Kapoor and Arjun Kapoor star as a would-be couple that strikes an interesting sort-of relationship. That skinny dip. Zodwa tells of her moment of naked truth In terms of series, there is a variety in store on  Zee TV and Zee World. Zee World is the globe’s first English-dubbed channel and offers series, game  shows, reality TV and Bollywood movies. The series that is particularly interesting is Love Happens, which airs this month. Aanya gets a reality check when she moves from her suburban home where she has all the trappings of wealth to a rural village that forces her to leave her former life as a brat behind. Modern Homemaker, which will be on your screen in December, sees a career woman decide to see what life would be like if she swopped the corner office for the broom cupboard. She encounters problems that she never had to deal with before when she becomes the traditional housewife. Begusarai is a soapie that will debut in March 2018. Begusarai is set in Bihar and we follow the lives of Bindiya Thakur and her five grown sons. They are poised to become the rulers of Beguserai. But Bindiya becomes obsessed with the idea that a woman will come between her sons and shatter the family bonds which she has worked hard to instil. These are only a few of the shows and films available on Zee TV, Zee World and Zee Cinema International.  Tell us what you'll be watching on Twitter @IOL_Lifestyle.  * Catch Zee TV (DStv Channel 452) and Zee World (DStv channel 166). Zee Cinema International is available on StarSat channel 558.   uHelenH  IOL