The second day of Eskom Expo for Young Scientists International Science Fair (ISF) was abuzz with the great ideas presented by young scientists. The day concluded with a special award ceremony, held at the Birchwood Hotel and Conference Centre, recognised some of the exceptional projects on display at ISF. In attendance was the Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, Mr Dikobe Martins, who after viewing the projects of the young scientists,  said, “The projects I saw today were erudite and mind-blowing. The Eskom Expo, which is endorsed by the Department of Public Enterprises, Department of Basic Education and the Department of Science and Technology, has seen learners from various regions across the country competing for a spot at the prestigious ISF, which is a culmination of all the regional competitions. Also on Business Report: OPINION: Eskom Expo for Young Scientists unearthing SA’s future problem solvers “For several years the Eskom Expo has hosted learners from several other African countries and this year we have learners from seven other countries participating,'' Pieter Pretorius, Chairman of the Eskom Expo Board of Directors, said. "None of this would be possible without our sponsors, whose support enables us to run the competition and offer prizes to the value of R4 million, which are a powerful motivator to our participants.These youngsters are not only concerned about their own interests but also the future of their country," Pretorious added. Apart from South Africa, participants at this year’s ISF also came from Ghana, Nigeria, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Lesotho and Brazil.The ISF not only exposes learners to the exciting fields of science, technology, engineering, mathematics and innovation (STEMI), but also allows them to gain critical thinking, problem-solving, presentation skills, the importance of team work as well as learning to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds. You might also like: WATCH: KZN exporter of the year nominees announced Eskom Group Executive: Transmission / Acting Group Executive: Risk and Sustainability, Mr Thava Govender, said, “Eskom is proud to be part of the International Science Fair, which is a great platform for future scientists and engineers to establish a base for their future careers. It is an ideal catalyst for unearthing the country’s brightest young minds and also opens their eyes to the various options and many exciting career opportunities available in the extensive scientific world.” Over and above the numerous sponsor awards given out, four special awards, sponsored by Eskom, were awarded to some of the most outstanding participants in South Africa’s largest school-level science fair. The winners were presented with cash prizes, tablet and laptops. - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE