The White House announced that US President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump will travel to 5 countries in Asia next month. The places he will visit include Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam, the Philippines, and Hawaii. President Trump will be in Asia for a series of bilateral, multilateral, and cultural engagements, including the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit. While Trump will perform his presidential duties, it will not hurt for him and the First Lady to do a bit of sightseeing. Here are some of our picks: South Korea  With all the seriousness of performing his presidential duties, the Trick Eye Museum in Seoul is ideal for him to unwind in a fun setting. The museum has a collection of 3D exhibits where travellers can play out roles according to the different scenes. Unlike other museums, this one allows guests to experience and touch the exhibits directly. Japan Karaoke at 1Kara, Tokyo A visit to Japan is incomplete without a karaoke session. Karaoke is quite popular in Japan, and we are sure that President Trump will absolutely love it. A favourite spot is 1Kara in Tokyo. We can only imagine the president belting out the songs of Frank Sinatra. China Summer Palace, Beijing If President Trump wants to admire the beauty of China, then Summer Palace in Beijing is just the place. Believed to have opened in 1750, Summer Palace is filled with lakes, gardens and palaces. This is the perfect spot for him to unwind away from a crowd. Vietnam An Bang Beach, Hoi An
 
An Bang Beach is just 3km north of Cua Dai. One of the most popular local beaches,  President Trump can dine at one of the local seafood restaurants nearby. The Philippines Rice Terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras The Rice Terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras were added on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1995 and is known as the first-ever property to be included in the cultural landscape category of the World Heritage List. The terraces are located in the remote areas of the Philippine Cordillera mountain range on the northern island of Luzon, Philippine archipelago.