The mother of two girls, who she calls her “queens”, has treaded the entertainment industry for a decade. But no matter how much time she spends singing, dancing and acting, she still considers her family her first priority. “Family always comes first. I’ve just recently had my second baby and so I want to be around for her as much as I can. “So it’s a juggling act that I’ve learned 
how to do very well. I do what I need to do in order to make sure that everyone is safe and okay,” said Wagner. “I’ve also started to choose what jobs I take on, I don’t just jump into jobs like I did when I was younger. It needs to be good for my family, for my energy and must be financially viable before I agree.” Wagner was born in Israel, but left the country with her parents who were search of a better, brighter future, when she was a year old. Although she still has family in Israel, she says her Israeli roots are diluted. “My parents came to South Africa in search of a better opportunity and I was fortunate to have grown up here. I am proudly South African and in love with our rich history, culture and lifestyle and I would never trade that in,” she said. While Wagner has made a name for herself in theatre, she recently bagged a role on the SABC3 dramedy, 'Bedford Wives'. She plays the character, Despina Giannopoulos: a beauty queen, widow and crime boss. The show follows the lives of four women and a community of Bedfordview criminals who, on the surface, live pristine and perfect lives but, behind closed doors, have skeletons in their closets. The role, she said, couldn’t have come at a better time in her life. She said the show is one that pushes the envelope. “The story is amazing. It’s fast paced and funny and I really think it’s of an international standard,” she said. Aside from her TV roles, Wagner said her heart belongs to theatre and she would love to one day act on Broadway. “I would love to act the role of Fantine. Fantine is a fictional character in Victor 
Hugo’s 1862 novel Les Misérables. She is a 
young orphaned grisette in Paris who 
becomes pregnant by a rich student,” said Wagner. “After he abandons her, she is forced to look after their child, Cosette, on her own.” She said her dream role for film and TV was to some day play the part of a superhero or a villain. This multi-talented actress also tried her hand at music. In 2014 she and her a cappella group Honey participated in 'SA’s Got Talent,' where they finished fourth. She says that while she enjoys singing, she doesn’t feel she will be able to tell her own story. “I am better at telling other people’s’ stories and not my own. I would tell it with much confidence and charisma. “I’m a very private person and I don’t think I could expose myself in that way, but who knows, maybe one day,” she said. For now, Wagner said she’s enjoying being on screen and will someday love to be behind the scenes in a director’s chair.