JOHANNESBURG - Muhsin Ertugral has ruled out the possibility of returning to Kaizer Chiefs for the third time. Ertugral has already held the reigns as the coach at Naturena during two different spells. He has been linked to the Amakhosi job over the last week weeks due to Steve Komphela's current difficulties at the club and with its supporters. The former Bafana Bafana skipper is yet to deliver a cup during his two and half year stint. Meanwhile, Ertugral was been spotted at several Absa Premiership matches in the last few weeks. Speaking exclusively to Independent Media, Ertugral ruled out the possibility of returning to the Amakhosi. “Chiefs have never contacted me," he said. "They still have the coach and I believe he can turn things around at Chiefs. Steve was my assistant and I love him as a person. "I have a good working relationship with Steve and I will never backstab. I’m not that type of coach that backstabs other coaches." The Turk resigned from Orlando Pirates last season after he was thumped 6-0 by SuperSport United in a league encounter. “At the beginning of the season I had an offer from England. The contract was there and we had agreed on everything. I went there and I met players but my work permit got delayed," he said. "It took two months and I ended up losing the job. I don’t want to mention the name of the team because there’s a coach at that particular club at the moment. After that I went to Turkey where I was doing TV work." "I’m also on the Fifa technical committee. I’ve had offers from South African teams but I declined them. At the moment I’m relaxing but if an opportunity comes I will have a look at it then make the decision. I need to take the right decision,” Ertugral elaborated. Ertugral handed Lebogang Manyama his Absa Premiership debut at Ajax Cape Town. He also played a part in him joining the Turkish side Konyaspor. “Most of the Turkish club they always ask me if they want to sign an African player. It was the similar case with Manyama. I told them that he is a good player and he can help them sustain their Turkish status. I think he will shine in Turkey,” Ertugral concluded. Ertugral started his coaching career in South Africa at Chiefs in the 1999/2000 season and won them numerous trophies including the 2001 Caf Mandela Cup that is now knowns as the Confederation Cup. The Star   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 