And her good friend, Jody Cameron, will be there on the sidelines, cheering her on to make it to the finish line. The pair will leave for New York on Thursday to complete a journey that started three years ago with the two women sharing a number of highs and lows, as well as taking a detour they never expected. Mthethwa, who is a domestic helper in the Camerons’ Ballito home, was inspired to start running after watching KZN champion Bongmusa Mthembu win the Comrades Marathon in 2014. She joined Dolphin Coast Riders, running her first Comrades in 2015. Since then she has run numerous marathons and ultra-marathons, before setting her sights on the New York Marathon, her first overseas adventure. With the decision made to compete, Mthethwa and Cameron joined forces in February to raise funds to get Mthethwa to New York, starting a Facebook page “Dreaming of New York”. By the end of February, Mthethwa’s flights were sponsored and funds for her trip started to come in. It was at that point their journey to New York took a detour. Mthethwa said: “I come from Tete, outside Stanger, and I had mentioned to Jody that there is a gogo there who feeds orphaned children and it would be good to help them. At that stage we were still raising funds to cover my trip. Then Jody went to a lunch and by chance was sitting next to the lady from Summerhill House which assists vulnerable children.” Cameron takes up the story: “I was sitting next to Paula Owen, who is the founder of Summerhill House, and it turned out that her domestic helper, Esther Lynn, is the gogo who feeds the children. We made the connection and by the time I was driving home I couldn’t wait to phone Vee (Mthethwa) and tell her about it. “We decided we were also going to raise money for Summerhill House through her run at the New York Marathon,” said Cameron. The women have set up a separate crowdfunding site where all funds raised will be for Summerhill House. Cameron said: “Paula and Esther share a story just like ours, it’s no longer being an employer and employee. It moves to a different level and a strong friendship is formed. “Vee and I have pushed the boundaries, we have raised each other up and are hoping to make a difference in other people’s lives.” Mthethwa said: “We are working together on this project. It’s been amazing.” Meanwhile, Mthethwa continued to train for the upcoming marathon under Comrades runner Prodigal Khumalo. She has picked up a slight injury so has cut training for this week, but said she would be raring to go on the day and will be running to honour her father, Gulushe Mthethwa, who suddenly died on the same day the Comrades Marathon was run this year. “We were estranged and I was planning to meet up with him before I left for New York. I wanted to tell him I am 
a runner and that I’ll be going overseas to run, but he 
passed away so I will run in his honour,” she said. Mthethwa had another tragedy to deal with earlier in the year when, on New Year’s Eve, her mother was shot and, as a result, is now blind. “I don’t think my mom really believes I am going to New York, but I am looking forward to crossing that finishing line and making her and my three children proud. “I have never been overseas but I’m not scared as I’m not going alone. I will have Jody with me,” said Mthethwa. Cameron added: “I’ve never been to America either, so if we get lost, we will be lost together.” THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY