Johannesburg - Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane on Thursday accused President Jacob Zuma of being a "willing sellout" to "willing buyers" - the Gupta family. Maimane made these remarks during his party's march to the Gupta family's compound against state capture and corruption. The march comes a day after the unveiling of a monument to Zuma at Groot Marico, where the opposition party had also staged a protest. An unapologetic Maimane ripped into Zuma and the Guptas, slamming them for selling the country. "Zuma is a willing sellout and he's been captured by the Guptas, who are willing buyers. "Just a few hundred metres down the road from here is the Gupta’s mansion – the very site were Zuma and his ANC government were captured, and where they sold our country to the highest bidder." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The DA leader told supporters, who'd braved the rain to take part in the march, that the decision to march to the family's compound was because it was the headquarters for state capture. The compound, he claimed, was where ministers were appointed and government contracts were signed. "Every decision made there is made guided by one criteria: make Jacob Zuma, his friends, and the Gupta rich," Maimane said. His words were met with cheers and applause, with supporters adding that they were fed-up with the family and its antics. One DA member, Doris Mosii said she'd braved the chilly weather because she was sick and tired of the Guptas. "This is our country, not theirs. They must just go back home, we don't want them here," she said. While members had geared up to march to family's home in Saxonwold, an interdict granted to the Guptas prevented this, resulting in only the leadership taking part in the march. Upon arriving at the Gupta compound, Maimane made it clear that South Africa was ready for change. "What South Africa needs is a new beginning, a chance to cleanse itself from the scourge of corruption that's taking place across the country. "Corruption not only benefits the few, but it steals resources from millions of South Africans." IOL