Matt Damon has admitted that he knew Harvey Weinstein had sexually harassed Gwyneth Paltrow. Harvey helped propel Matt and his good friend Ben Affleck to fame by producing their movie 'Good Will Hunting' through his former company Miramax and Matt has admitted he was aware of some of Harvey's transgressions but insists he had no idea about the sexual assault allegations. 'Suburbicon' star Matt, 47, told 'Good Morning America': "I knew the story about Gwyneth [Paltrow] [being sexually harassed by him] from Ben, because he was with her after Brad [Pitt]. I never talked to Gwyneth about it. Ben told me. I knew that they had come to whatever agreement or understanding, she was the first lady of Miramax. He treated her incredibly respectfully. Always." Gwyneth, 45, recently came forward to reveal the disgraced producer had made unwanted advances towards her when she was 22 and filming 'Emma', but she went on to make a number of other movies with him afterwards, including her Oscar-winning 'Shakespeare in Love'. Harvey, 65, allegedly placed his hands on the blonde beauty's shoulders and suggested they head to the bedroom for massages. She said: "I was a kid, I was signed up, I was petrified." The star claims she refused his alleged advances and told her then-boyfriend Brad Pitt, who confronted the producer, and Harvey later asked Gwyneth not to tell anyone what had happened. She added: "I thought he was going to fire me." Since a string of sexual assault and harassment allegations were made against Harvey, he has been fired from The Weinstein Company and his wife of 10 years, Georgina Chapman, decided to leave him. He is now seeking treatment in a rehab facility in the US. Meanwhile, Matt also revealed that he knew Harvey was a bully and a philanderer. He said: "You had to spend about five minutes with him to know that he was a bully and he was intimidating...that was his whole kind of M.O. When people say 'everybody knew,' yeah I knew. I knew he was an a*****e. He was proud of that. I knew he was a womaniser. I wouldn't want to be married to the guy. This level of criminal sexual predation was not something I ever thought was going on."