Springboks 3, All Blacks 12
July 21 2001 In inclement conditions, the Springbok forwards took control of the game from the first minute and rarely has an All Blacks pack been so thoroughly dominated. But the home back-line could not get the ball over the line in a game in the rain and it came down to a battle between the goal kickers. Percy Montgomery was having an off day and the hero for the Kiwis was flyhalf Tony Brown, who showed poise and nerve to nail four penalties, mostly against the run of play. The Bok tight five of Robbie Kempson, Lukas van Biljon, Cobus Visagie, Mark Andrews and Victor Matfield was outstanding. Few who were present will forget Van Biljon stampeding through the opposition forwards like a runaway freight train and knocking out lock Norm Maxwell with a swing of his hips. Andrews recalls: “We were just about kicking ourselves in the change room after the game. We knew that was one that got away. We had completely stuffed them up and then let them get away with it.” Springboks 22, All Blacks 16 August 6, 2005 John Smit’s Boks outplayed the Kiwis to fully deserve the win. They were never in danger of losing thanks to a strong performance up front and a superb display by the loose trio of Schalk Burger, Juan Smith and Joe van Niekerk, who dominated their opposition and slowed down the All Blacks’ ball. Percy Montgomery was on song with the boot, kicking four penalties and the conversion of Jean de Villiers’ try. Smit recalled that the players celebrated long into the night. “Beating the best team in the world was one to savour and we did not want to leave the change room. We wanted to soak up every second of satisfaction. “We had played really well and had disrupted Byron Kelleher and Dan Carter to the extent that they could get no rhythm. We roughed them up good and proper.” Springboks 0, All Blacks 19 August 16, 2008 A month before, the Boks had beaten the All Blacks 30-28 in Dunedin thanks to Ricky Januarie’s heroics, and the Kiwis were in the mood for revenge in this return match, which happened to mark the 100th cap of fullback Percy Montgomery. The 34-year-old was South Africa’s first rugby centurion and was playing on his home ground for the final time. Everything was in place for an emotional send-off for Percy but it was not meant to be. The Boks were six months into the Peter de Villiers era and played much of the rugby in this Test but got no reward for their positive play. It was the old story of failing to capitalise on opportunities created, while the All Blacks clinically converted Bok mistakes into points. Monty did not have the best day with the boot and in the end the party-pooping visitors deservedly won by three tries to none. Independent on Saturday  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 