DURBAN: SHE has been diagnosed with three types of cancers, undergone several major surgeries and survived them all. Her heart stopped beating, but she’s still alive, all because she’s a fighter.
Glenwood resident Janice Benecke, 57, is no ordinary survivor. She is using her experiences to make a difference in the lives of other cancer sufferers. She puts on her pink cape every day, her purpose being to give hope to others. Benecke, who suffered germ cell cancer, lung cancer and, more recently, breast cancer, is the KZN administrator for PinkDrive, a non-profit organisation dedicated to breast cancer awareness. After her “traumatic” experiences of being diagnosed three times, as well as losing her husband to cancer, Benecke said she could no longer let cancer beat her. She decided to start her own initiative of distributing ribbons at shopping malls back in 2011. It was shortly after this that she volunteered her time to PinkDrive. Her dedication to the cause led to her becoming a permanent employee of the team. “In 1994, I was diagnosed with germ cell cancer. There was a golf ball size growth on my coccyx bone (tailbone) growing up my spine. “This spread to my lung. I was told that half my lung would have to be cut out. I had operations, and at some point, my sister who was with me, watched as my heart stopped beating,” said Benecke. During her initial diagnosis, she was on red chemotherapy, commonly called “The Little Red Devil”. “I got very sick, had black rings around my eyes and lost a lot of weight. “Within two weeks my hair was falling everywhere. When I woke in the morning, if I managed to get any sleep at all, there was hair all over. So we decided to shave my head. “I was then called ‘Cone Head’ which I did not mind as it was my children’s way to deal with the whole episode,” said Benecke. Fourteen years later, Benecke, a mother of three, was having a shower when she found an odd lump in her left breast. After seeing a doctor, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. “I had to undergo another operation. Although you would think by this time I would be shaking with fear, surprisingly I wasn’t. I am a Christian and put all my faith in God, so back to the hospital I went. “The doctors removed 18 lymph nodes and I have a 15cm cut under my arm to my nipple. They managed to save my breast and only removed a small portion,” said Benecke. She said recovery was long and hard, but she beat cancer again. But in the process, she lost her greatest pillar of strength, her husband, Charles, 58, a businessman, after he was diagnosed with bone marrow cancer. “I could so easily have gone into a corner and into depression but I decided to dedicate my life to charity and to helping others. “I started by doing something simple, like handing out ribbons in a shopping mall, and today I am the KZN administrator for my beloved PinkDrive. It has become my life,” said Benecke. She said she recently went for her annual check-up and was glad to be free of any cancer. “My goal in life is to now help others to pull through. Even if it’s just dedicating my time to having a cup of tea with someone with cancer, so I can hear their stories and also give them a bit of hope, I am ready to do this at any time.” Benecke’s diary is always full, planning events for Breast Cancer Awareness Month this month, and running the PinkDrive initiative in Durban. “As someone who has seen how cancer and having a weak mindset can destroy an individual, I am here to give hope to those who are facing hardships as a result of cancer. “My message to women out there is to please have regular breast examinations done, because early detection can save lives,” said Benecke.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE